doc/source/reference/parameters/im3195-input3195listenport.rst, before:

.. _param-im3195-input3195listenport:
.. _im3195.parameter.module.input3195listenport:

Input3195ListenPort
===================

.. index::
   single: im3195; Input3195ListenPort
   single: Input3195ListenPort
   single: im3195; $Input3195ListenPort
   single: $Input3195ListenPort

.. summary-start

Sets the TCP port where im3195 listens for RFC 3195 messages.

.. summary-end

This directive applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/im3195`.

.. note::

   This is a legacy global directive. The im3195 module does not support
   the modern ``input()`` syntax.

:Scope: module
:Type: integer
:Default: 601
:Required?: no
:Introduced: Not documented

Description
-----------

The default port is 601. This is the IANA-assigned port for the BEEP protocol,
which RFC 3195 is based on.

Since directive names are case-insensitive, the camelCase form
``$Input3195ListenPort`` is recommended for readability.

Module usage
------------
.. _im3195.parameter.module.input3195listenport-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   $ModLoad im3195
   $Input3195ListenPort 1601

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/im3195`.

Commit message:

im3195: align parameter reference headings with style guide
- add the canonical metadata, usage anchor, and legacy alias block to the Input3195ListenPort reference

- switch the page title and section adornments to the level-2/3 markers requested by the documentation review

Tests: make -C doc html SPHINXOPTS="-j auto"

AI-Agent: ChatGPT

doc/source/reference/parameters/im3195-input3195listenport.rst, after:

.. _param-im3195-input3195listenport:
.. _im3195.parameter.module.input3195listenport:

Input3195ListenPort
-------------------

.. index::
   single: im3195; Input3195ListenPort
   single: Input3195ListenPort
   single: im3195; $Input3195ListenPort
   single: $Input3195ListenPort

.. summary-start

The TCP port on which im3195 listens for RFC 3195 messages.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/im3195`.

.. note::

   This is a legacy global directive. The im3195 module does not support
   the modern ``input()`` syntax.

:Name: Input3195ListenPort
:Scope: module
:Type: integer
:Default: 601
:Required?: no
:Introduced: Not documented

Description
~~~~~~~~~~~

The default port is 601. This is the IANA-assigned port for the BEEP protocol,
which RFC 3195 is based on.

Since directive names are case-insensitive, the camelCase form
``$Input3195ListenPort`` is recommended for readability.

Module usage
~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. _param-im3195-module-input3195listenport:
.. _im3195.parameter.module.input3195listenport-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   $ModLoad im3195
   $Input3195ListenPort 1601

Legacy names (for reference)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Historic names/directives for compatibility. Do not use in new configs.

.. _im3195.parameter.legacy.input3195listenport:

- ``$Input3195ListenPort`` — legacy directive for this parameter (status:
  legacy)

.. index::
   single: im3195; $Input3195ListenPort
   single: $Input3195ListenPort

See also
~~~~~~~~
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/im3195`.
