doc/source/reference/parameters/imdiag-aborttimeout.rst, before:

.. _param-imdiag-aborttimeout:
.. _imdiag.parameter.module.aborttimeout:

AbortTimeout
============

.. index::
   single: imdiag; AbortTimeout
   single: AbortTimeout

.. summary-start

Starts a watchdog thread that aborts rsyslog if shutdown exceeds the limit.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imdiag`.

:Name: AbortTimeout
:Scope: module
:Type: integer (seconds)
:Default: module=none (disabled)
:Required?: no
:Introduced: at least 5.x, possibly earlier

Description
-----------
When set, :samp:`AbortTimeout` installs a guard thread that tracks the runtime
of the rsyslog instance. If rsyslog remains active for longer than the
configured number of seconds after the guard starts, the thread writes a status
message to ``stderr`` and terminates the daemon with ``abort()``. The guard is
intended for automated test environments to detect deadlocks or hangs.

The guard can only be configured once during the lifetime of the process. A
second attempt to configure the watchdog is ignored and logs an error. Values
less than or equal to zero are rejected.

Module usage
------------
.. _param-imdiag-module-aborttimeout:
.. _imdiag.parameter.module.aborttimeout-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   module(load="imdiag" abortTimeout="600")

Legacy names (for reference)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Historic names/directives for compatibility. Do not use in new configs.

.. _imdiag.parameter.legacy.imdiagaborttimeout:

- $IMDiagAbortTimeout — maps to AbortTimeout (status: legacy)

.. index::
   single: imdiag; $IMDiagAbortTimeout
   single: $IMDiagAbortTimeout

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imdiag`.

Commit message:

imdiag: clarify AbortTimeout summary
* Align the AbortTimeout summary with its runtime watchdog behavior so it no longer implies shutdown-only coverage.

AI-Agent: ChatGPT

doc/source/reference/parameters/imdiag-aborttimeout.rst, after:

.. _param-imdiag-aborttimeout:
.. _imdiag.parameter.module.aborttimeout:

AbortTimeout
============

.. index::
   single: imdiag; AbortTimeout
   single: AbortTimeout

.. summary-start

Starts a watchdog thread that aborts rsyslog if it runs longer than the configured time limit.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imdiag`.

:Name: AbortTimeout
:Scope: module
:Type: integer (seconds)
:Default: module=none (disabled)
:Required?: no
:Introduced: at least 5.x, possibly earlier

Description
-----------
When set, :samp:`AbortTimeout` installs a guard thread that tracks the runtime
of the rsyslog instance. If rsyslog remains active for longer than the
configured number of seconds after the guard starts, the thread writes a status
message to ``stderr`` and terminates the daemon with ``abort()``. The guard is
intended for automated test environments to detect deadlocks or hangs.

The guard can only be configured once during the lifetime of the process. A
second attempt to configure the watchdog is ignored and logs an error. Values
less than or equal to zero are rejected.

Module usage
------------
.. _param-imdiag-module-aborttimeout:
.. _imdiag.parameter.module.aborttimeout-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   module(load="imdiag" abortTimeout="600")

Legacy names (for reference)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Historic names/directives for compatibility. Do not use in new configs.

.. _imdiag.parameter.legacy.imdiagaborttimeout:

- $IMDiagAbortTimeout — maps to AbortTimeout (status: legacy)

.. index::
   single: imdiag; $IMDiagAbortTimeout
   single: $IMDiagAbortTimeout

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imdiag`.
