doc/source/reference/parameters/imdiag-serverstreamdrivermode.rst, before:

.. _param-imdiag-serverstreamdrivermode:
.. _imdiag.parameter.input.serverstreamdrivermode:

ServerStreamDriverMode
======================

.. index::
   single: imdiag; ServerStreamDriverMode
   single: ServerStreamDriverMode

.. summary-start

Sets the mode value passed to the configured network stream driver.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imdiag`.

:Name: ServerStreamDriverMode
:Scope: input
:Type: integer
:Default: input=0
:Required?: no
:Introduced: at least 5.x, possibly earlier

Description
-----------
Provides the mode number consumed by the selected
:doc:`network stream driver <../../concepts/netstrm_drvr>`. The meaning of the
value is driver-specific. Configure this parameter before invoking
:ref:`ServerRun <param-imdiag-serverrun>` so that the listener picks up the
desired transport behavior (for example, TLS wrapper modes).

Input usage
-----------
.. _param-imdiag-input-serverstreamdrivermode:
.. _imdiag.parameter.input.serverstreamdrivermode-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   module(load="imdiag")
   input(type="imdiag" listenPortFileName="/var/run/imdiag.port"
         serverStreamDriverMode="1" serverRun="19998")

Legacy names (for reference)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Historic names/directives for compatibility. Do not use in new configs.

.. _imdiag.parameter.legacy.imdiagserverstreamdrivermode:

- $IMDiagServerStreamDriverMode — maps to ServerStreamDriverMode (status: legacy)

.. index::
   single: imdiag; $IMDiagServerStreamDriverMode
   single: $IMDiagServerStreamDriverMode

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imdiag`.

Commit message:

imdiag: clarify stream driver docs and watchdog timing
- explain that imdiag always binds the plain TCP stream driver so ServerStreamDriver* settings are currently ignored\n- mention the plain TCP constraint from ServerRun\n- clarify that AbortTimeout's watchdog applies to the full runtime rather than shutdown only\n\nAI-Agent: ChatGPT

doc/source/reference/parameters/imdiag-serverstreamdrivermode.rst, after:

.. _param-imdiag-serverstreamdrivermode:
.. _imdiag.parameter.input.serverstreamdrivermode:

ServerStreamDriverMode
======================

.. index::
   single: imdiag; ServerStreamDriverMode
   single: ServerStreamDriverMode

.. summary-start

Accepts a numeric stream driver mode value, but imdiag forces the plain TCP driver so the setting is ignored.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imdiag`.

:Name: ServerStreamDriverMode
:Scope: input
:Type: integer
:Default: input=0
:Required?: no
:Introduced: at least 5.x, possibly earlier

Description
-----------
Provides the mode number consumed by the selected
:doc:`network stream driver <../../concepts/netstrm_drvr>`. imdiag always binds
to the plain TCP (``ptcp``) stream driver, which does not act on the provided
mode value. The parameter remains available for configuration compatibility and
possible future extensions, but it does not alter behaviour in current
releases.

Input usage
-----------
.. _param-imdiag-input-serverstreamdrivermode:
.. _imdiag.parameter.input.serverstreamdrivermode-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   module(load="imdiag")
   input(type="imdiag" listenPortFileName="/var/run/imdiag.port"
         serverStreamDriverMode="1" serverRun="19998")

Legacy names (for reference)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Historic names/directives for compatibility. Do not use in new configs.

.. _imdiag.parameter.legacy.imdiagserverstreamdrivermode:

- $IMDiagServerStreamDriverMode — maps to ServerStreamDriverMode (status: legacy)

.. index::
   single: imdiag; $IMDiagServerStreamDriverMode
   single: $IMDiagServerStreamDriverMode

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imdiag`.
