doc/source/reference/parameters/imfile-maxinotifywatches.rst, before:

.. _param-imfile-maxinotifywatches:
.. _imfile.parameter.module.maxinotifywatches:
.. _imfile.parameter.maxinotifywatches:

maxiNotifyWatches
=================

.. index::
   single: imfile; maxiNotifyWatches
   single: maxiNotifyWatches

.. summary-start

Specifies the maximum number of inotify watches that imfile can use.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imfile`.

:Name: maxiNotifyWatches
:Scope: module
:Type: integer
:Default: module=0
:Required?: no
:Introduced: 8.2602.0

Description
-----------
This sets the maximum number of inotify watches that imfile can consume.
This is useful to limit rsyslog's consumption of inotify watches, for example, to prevent
it from using up all available watches on a system where other applications also need them.
exceeded, imfile will not be able to monitor new files. It is recommended to
set this value high enough to cover all monitored files, including those that
may be created in the future.

The system's limit can be checked via ``/proc/sys/fs/inotify/max_user_watches``.
If you do not have sufficient permissions to change the system-wide limit,
this parameter provides a way to limit rsyslog's resource consumption.

Module usage
------------
.. _imfile.parameter.module.maxinotifywatches-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   module(load="imfile" maxiNotifyWatches="256000")

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imfile`.

Commit message:

imfile: add inotify fallback rescans on watch limits
Graceful degradation when watch limits are reached avoids a hard stop
and keeps logs flowing in constrained environments.

Impact: inotify mode may rescan periodically after watch limits.

Before: inotify watch limits stopped new watches without recovery.
After: imfile periodically rescans and retries missing watches, and
clears fallback once watches can be armed again.
Inotify watch setup now marks limit hits and schedules retry scans.
Fallback scans re-walk the tree and rearm missing watches, then
disable fallback once all watches are active.
The fallback interval is configurable and bounded to avoid overflow.
Docs add the new parameter and clarify watch-limit behavior.

With the help of AI Agents: ChatGPT codex, cubic-dev-ai

doc/source/reference/parameters/imfile-maxinotifywatches.rst, after:

.. _param-imfile-maxinotifywatches:
.. _imfile.parameter.module.maxinotifywatches:
.. _imfile.parameter.maxinotifywatches:

maxiNotifyWatches
=================

.. index::
   single: imfile; maxiNotifyWatches
   single: maxiNotifyWatches

.. summary-start

Specifies the maximum number of inotify watches that imfile can use.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imfile`.

:Name: maxiNotifyWatches
:Scope: module
:Type: integer
:Default: module=0
:Required?: no
:Introduced: 8.2602.0

Description
-----------
This sets the maximum number of inotify watches that imfile can consume.
This is useful to limit rsyslog's consumption of inotify watches, for example, to prevent
it from using up all available watches on a system where other applications also need them.
When the limit is reached, imfile keeps processing known files and switches to
periodic rescans (see ``inotifyFallbackInterval``) to discover changes and retry
arming watches. It is recommended to set this value high enough to cover all
monitored files, including those that may be created in the future.

The system's limit can be checked via ``/proc/sys/fs/inotify/max_user_watches``.
If you do not have sufficient permissions to change the system-wide limit,
this parameter provides a way to limit rsyslog's resource consumption.

Module usage
------------
.. _imfile.parameter.module.maxinotifywatches-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   module(load="imfile" maxiNotifyWatches="256000")

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imfile`.
