doc/source/reference/parameters/imgssapi-inputgsslistenportfilename.rst, before:

.. _param-imgssapi-inputgsslistenportfilename:
.. _imgssapi.parameter.input.inputgsslistenportfilename:

InputGSSListenPortFileName
==========================

.. index::
   single: imgssapi; InputGSSListenPortFileName
   single: InputGSSListenPortFileName

.. summary-start

Writes the listener's bound port number to the specified file.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imgssapi`.

:Name: InputGSSListenPortFileName
:Scope: input
:Type: word
:Default: input=none
:Required?: no
:Introduced: 8.38.0

Description
-----------
.. versionadded:: 8.38.0

With this parameter you can specify the name for a file. In this file, the
port the listener is connected to will be written. This parameter was introduced
because the testbench works with dynamic ports.

.. note::

   If this parameter is set, 0 will be accepted as the port. Otherwise it
   is automatically changed to port 514.

Input usage
-----------
.. _param-imgssapi-input-inputgsslistenportfilename:
.. _imgssapi.parameter.input.inputgsslistenportfilename-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   module(load="imgssapi")
   $InputGSSListenPortFileName "/var/run/rsyslog-gss-port"

Legacy names (for reference)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Historic names/directives for compatibility. Do not use in new configs.

.. _imgssapi.parameter.legacy.inputgsslistenportfilename:

- $InputGSSListenPortFileName — maps to InputGSSListenPortFileName (status: legacy)

.. index::
   single: imgssapi; $InputGSSListenPortFileName
   single: $InputGSSListenPortFileName

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imgssapi`.

Commit message:

imgssapi: clarify parameter notes and limitations
- explain that InputGSSListenPortFileName writes the bound port number

- describe keepalive behavior at the TCP socket layer

- document the SPN default for InputGSSServerServiceName

- warn that InputGSSServerMaxSessions is currently non-functional

AI-Agent: ChatGPT

doc/source/reference/parameters/imgssapi-inputgsslistenportfilename.rst, after:

.. _param-imgssapi-inputgsslistenportfilename:
.. _imgssapi.parameter.input.inputgsslistenportfilename:

InputGSSListenPortFileName
==========================

.. index::
   single: imgssapi; InputGSSListenPortFileName
   single: InputGSSListenPortFileName

.. summary-start

Writes the listener's bound port number to the specified file.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imgssapi`.

:Name: InputGSSListenPortFileName
:Scope: input
:Type: word
:Default: input=none
:Required?: no
:Introduced: 8.38.0

Description
-----------
.. versionadded:: 8.38.0

With this parameter you can specify the name for a file, into which the
port number the listener is listening on will be written. This parameter was
introduced because the testbench works with dynamic ports.

.. note::

   If this parameter is set, 0 will be accepted as the port. Otherwise it
   is automatically changed to port 514.

Input usage
-----------
.. _param-imgssapi-input-inputgsslistenportfilename:
.. _imgssapi.parameter.input.inputgsslistenportfilename-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   module(load="imgssapi")
   $InputGSSListenPortFileName "/var/run/rsyslog-gss-port"

Legacy names (for reference)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Historic names/directives for compatibility. Do not use in new configs.

.. _imgssapi.parameter.legacy.inputgsslistenportfilename:

- $InputGSSListenPortFileName — maps to InputGSSListenPortFileName (status: legacy)

.. index::
   single: imgssapi; $InputGSSListenPortFileName
   single: $InputGSSListenPortFileName

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imgssapi`.
