doc/source/reference/parameters/imklog-consoleloglevel.rst, before:

.. _param-imklog-consoleloglevel:
.. _imklog.parameter.module.consoleloglevel:

ConsoleLogLevel
================

.. index::
   single: imklog; ConsoleLogLevel
   single: ConsoleLogLevel

.. summary-start

Sets the maximum severity that the kernel prints to the console when imklog starts.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imklog`.

:Name: ConsoleLogLevel
:Scope: module
:Type: integer
:Default: -1
:Required?: no
:Introduced: at least 5.x, possibly earlier

Description
-----------
Sets the console log level. If specified, only messages with up to the
specified level are printed to the console. The default is -1, which
means that the current settings are not modified. To get this behavior,
do not specify ``ConsoleLogLevel`` in the configuration file. Note that
this is a global parameter. Each time it is changed, the previous
definition is re-set. The active setting will be the last one defined
when imklog actually starts processing. In short words: do not specify
this directive more than once!

**Linux only**, ignored on other platforms (but may be specified).

Module usage
------------
.. _param-imklog-module-consoleloglevel:
.. _imklog.parameter.module.consoleloglevel-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   module(load="imklog" consoleLogLevel="4")

Legacy names (for reference)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Historic names/directives for compatibility. Do not use in new configs.

.. _imklog.parameter.legacy.klogconsoleloglevel:

- $klogConsoleLogLevel — maps to ConsoleLogLevel (status: legacy)

.. index::
   single: imklog; $klogConsoleLogLevel
   single: $klogConsoleLogLevel

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imklog`.

Commit message:

imklog: address review feedback in parameter docs
- clarify consoleLogLevel guidance and avoid repeated phrasing

- trim InternalMsgFacility guidance and streamline See also sections

- align the remaining parameter references with the concise See also wording

AI-Agent: ChatGPT

doc/source/reference/parameters/imklog-consoleloglevel.rst, after:

.. _param-imklog-consoleloglevel:
.. _imklog.parameter.module.consoleloglevel:

ConsoleLogLevel
================

.. index::
   single: imklog; ConsoleLogLevel
   single: ConsoleLogLevel

.. summary-start

Sets the maximum severity that the kernel prints to the console when imklog starts.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imklog`.

:Name: ConsoleLogLevel
:Scope: module
:Type: integer
:Default: -1
:Required?: no
:Introduced: at least 5.x, possibly earlier

Description
-----------
Sets the console log level. If specified, only messages with up to the
specified level are printed to the console. The default is -1, which
means that the current settings are not modified. To get this behavior,
do not specify ``consoleLogLevel`` in the configuration file. Note that
this is a global parameter. Each time it is changed, the previous
definition is re-set. The active setting will be the last one defined
when imklog actually starts processing. For this reason, this directive
should not be specified more than once.

**Linux only**, ignored on other platforms (but may be specified).

Module usage
------------
.. _param-imklog-module-consoleloglevel:
.. _imklog.parameter.module.consoleloglevel-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   module(load="imklog" consoleLogLevel="4")

Legacy names (for reference)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Historic names/directives for compatibility. Do not use in new configs.

.. _imklog.parameter.legacy.klogconsoleloglevel:

- $klogConsoleLogLevel — maps to ConsoleLogLevel (status: legacy)

.. index::
   single: imklog; $klogConsoleLogLevel
   single: $klogConsoleLogLevel

See also
--------
:doc:`../../configuration/modules/imklog`
