doc/source/reference/parameters/impstats-log-syslog.rst, before:

.. _param-impstats-log-syslog:
.. _impstats.parameter.module.log-syslog:

log.syslog
==========

.. index::
   single: impstats; log.syslog
   single: log.syslog

.. summary-start

Enables or disables sending statistics to the regular syslog stream.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/impstats`.

:Name: log.syslog
:Scope: module
:Type: boolean
:Default: module=on
:Required?: no
:Introduced: at least 5.x, possibly earlier

Description
-----------
This is a boolean setting specifying if data should be sent to the usual syslog
stream. This is useful if custom formatting or more elaborate processing is
desired. However, output is placed under the same restrictions as regular
syslog data, especially in regard to the queue position (stats data may sit for
an extended period of time in queues if they are full). If set ``off``, then you
cannot bind the module to ``ruleset``.

Module usage
------------
.. _param-impstats-module-log-syslog-usage:
.. _impstats.parameter.module.log-syslog-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   module(load="impstats" logSyslog="off")

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/impstats`.

Commit message:

doc: clarify impstats log.syslog ruleset guidance
Spell out that disabling log.syslog precludes using the ruleset parameter because the syslog stream is required for rulesets.

Test: sphinx-build -b dummy -W --keep-going doc/source ../build/dummy doc/source/configuration/modules/impstats.rst doc/source/reference/parameters/impstats-interval.rst doc/source/reference/parameters/impstats-facility.rst doc/source/reference/parameters/impstats-severity.rst doc/source/reference/parameters/impstats-resetcounters.rst doc/source/reference/parameters/impstats-format.rst doc/source/reference/parameters/impstats-log-syslog.rst doc/source/reference/parameters/impstats-log-file.rst doc/source/reference/parameters/impstats-ruleset.rst doc/source/reference/parameters/impstats-bracketing.rst

AI-Agent: ChatGPT

doc/source/reference/parameters/impstats-log-syslog.rst, after:

.. _param-impstats-log-syslog:
.. _impstats.parameter.module.log-syslog:

log.syslog
==========

.. index::
   single: impstats; log.syslog
   single: log.syslog

.. summary-start

Enables or disables sending statistics to the regular syslog stream.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/impstats`.

:Name: log.syslog
:Scope: module
:Type: boolean
:Default: module=on
:Required?: no
:Introduced: at least 5.x, possibly earlier

Description
-----------
This is a boolean setting specifying if data should be sent to the usual syslog
stream. This is useful if custom formatting or more elaborate processing is
desired. However, output is placed under the same restrictions as regular
syslog data, especially in regard to the queue position (stats data may sit for
an extended period of time in queues if they are full). If set to ``off``, the
``ruleset`` parameter cannot be used, as syslog stream processing is required
for rulesets.

Module usage
------------
.. _param-impstats-module-log-syslog-usage:
.. _impstats.parameter.module.log-syslog-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   module(load="impstats" logSyslog="off")

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/impstats`.
