doc/source/reference/parameters/imrelp-tls-prioritystring.rst, before:

.. _param-imrelp-tls-prioritystring:
.. _imrelp.parameter.input.tls-prioritystring:

tls.priorityString
==================

.. index::
   single: imrelp; tls.priorityString
   single: tls.priorityString

.. summary-start

Passes a custom GnuTLS priority string to fine-tune cryptographic parameters.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imrelp`.

:Name: tls.priorityString
:Scope: input
:Type: string
:Default: input=none
:Required?: no
:Introduced: Not documented

Description
-----------
This parameter allows passing the so-called "priority string" to GnuTLS. This
string gives complete control over all crypto parameters, including compression
settings. For this reason, when ``tls.priorityString`` is specified, the
``tls.compression`` parameter has no effect and is ignored.

Full information about how to construct a priority string can be found in the
GnuTLS manual. At the time of writing, this information was contained in `section
6.10 of the GnuTLS manual <http://gnutls.org/manual/html_node/Priority-Strings.html>`_.

**Note: this is an expert parameter.** Do not use if you do not exactly know
what you are doing.

Input usage
-----------
.. _param-imrelp-input-tls-prioritystring:
.. _imrelp.parameter.input.tls-prioritystring-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   input(type="imrelp" port="2514" tls="on" tls.priorityString="NONE:+COMP-DEFLATE")

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imrelp`.

Commit message:

imrelp: add cross-refs between TLS parameter docs
Link TLS-related parameter descriptions to their canonical references so reviewers can navigate between pages.

AI-Agent: ChatGPT

doc/source/reference/parameters/imrelp-tls-prioritystring.rst, after:

.. _param-imrelp-tls-prioritystring:
.. _imrelp.parameter.input.tls-prioritystring:

tls.priorityString
==================

.. index::
   single: imrelp; tls.priorityString
   single: tls.priorityString

.. summary-start

Passes a custom GnuTLS priority string to fine-tune cryptographic parameters.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imrelp`.

:Name: tls.priorityString
:Scope: input
:Type: string
:Default: input=none
:Required?: no
:Introduced: Not documented

Description
-----------
This parameter allows passing the so-called "priority string" to GnuTLS. This
string gives complete control over all crypto parameters, including compression
settings. For this reason, when :ref:`param-imrelp-tls-prioritystring` is specified, the
:ref:`param-imrelp-tls-compression` parameter has no effect and is ignored.

Full information about how to construct a priority string can be found in the
GnuTLS manual. At the time of writing, this information was contained in `section
6.10 of the GnuTLS manual <http://gnutls.org/manual/html_node/Priority-Strings.html>`_.

**Note: this is an expert parameter.** Do not use if you do not exactly know
what you are doing.

Input usage
-----------
.. _param-imrelp-input-tls-prioritystring:
.. _imrelp.parameter.input.tls-prioritystring-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   input(type="imrelp" port="2514" tls="on" tls.priorityString="NONE:+COMP-DEFLATE")

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imrelp`.
