doc/source/reference/parameters/imrelp-tls-authmode.rst, before:

.. _param-imrelp-tls-authmode:
.. _imrelp.parameter.input.tls-authmode:

tls.authMode
============

.. index::
   single: imrelp; tls.authMode
   single: tls.authMode

.. summary-start

Selects the mutual authentication strategy for TLS-secured RELP sessions.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imrelp`.

:Name: tls.authMode
:Scope: input
:Type: string
:Default: input=none
:Required?: no
:Introduced: Not documented

Description
-----------
Sets the mode used for mutual authentication.

Supported values are either "*fingerprint*" or "*name*".

Fingerprint mode basically is what SSH does. It does not require a full PKI to
be present, instead self-signed certs can be used on all peers. Even if a CA
certificate is given, the validity of the peer cert is NOT verified against it.
Only the certificate fingerprint counts.

In "name" mode, certificate validation happens. Here, the matching is done
against the certificate's subjectAltName and, as a fallback, the subject common
name. If the certificate contains multiple names, a match on any one of these
names is considered good and permits the peer to talk to rsyslog.

Input usage
-----------
.. _param-imrelp-input-tls-authmode:
.. _imrelp.parameter.input.tls-authmode-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   input(type="imrelp" port="2514" tls="on" tls.authMode="fingerprint")

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imrelp`.

Commit message:

imrelp: document tls authmode values consistently
- add the certvalid option to the tls.authMode reference entry, format the supported values with inline code, and describe how it differs from fingerprint and name authentication

- align the tls.caCert guidance with the expanded value list so cross-references stay accurate

AI-Agent: ChatGPT

doc/source/reference/parameters/imrelp-tls-authmode.rst, after:

.. _param-imrelp-tls-authmode:
.. _imrelp.parameter.input.tls-authmode:

tls.authMode
============

.. index::
   single: imrelp; tls.authMode
   single: tls.authMode

.. summary-start

Selects the mutual authentication strategy for TLS-secured RELP sessions.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imrelp`.

:Name: tls.authMode
:Scope: input
:Type: string
:Default: input=none
:Required?: no
:Introduced: Not documented

Description
-----------
Sets the mode used for mutual authentication.

Supported values are ``fingerprint``, ``name``, or ``certvalid``.

``fingerprint`` mode basically is what SSH does. It does not require a full PKI
to be present, instead self-signed certs can be used on all peers. Even if a CA
certificate is given, the validity of the peer cert is NOT verified against it.
Only the certificate fingerprint counts.

In ``name`` mode, certificate validation happens. Here, the matching is done
against the certificate's subjectAltName and, as a fallback, the subject common
name. If the certificate contains multiple names, a match on any one of these
names is considered good and permits the peer to talk to rsyslog.

``certvalid`` mode validates the remote peer's certificate chain but does not
check the subject name, so any certificate trusted by the configured CAs is
accepted. This mode is therefore weaker than ``name`` and typically used only
when that reduced verification is acceptable.

Input usage
-----------
.. _param-imrelp-input-tls-authmode:
.. _imrelp.parameter.input.tls-authmode-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   input(type="imrelp" port="2514" tls="on" tls.authMode="fingerprint")

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imrelp`.
