doc/source/reference/parameters/imuxsock-syssock-ratelimit-severity.rst, before:

.. _param-imuxsock-syssock-ratelimit-severity:
.. _imuxsock.parameter.module.syssock-ratelimit-severity:

SysSock.RateLimit.Severity
==========================

.. index::
   single: imuxsock; SysSock.RateLimit.Severity
   single: SysSock.RateLimit.Severity

.. summary-start

Specifies which message severity levels are rate-limited on the system log socket.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imuxsock`.

:Name: SysSock.RateLimit.Severity
:Scope: module
:Type: integer
:Default: module=1
:Required?: no
:Introduced: at least 7.0.0, possibly earlier

Description
-----------
Specifies the severity of messages that shall be rate-limited.

.. seealso::

   https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syslog#Severity_level

Module usage
------------
.. _param-imuxsock-module-syssock-ratelimit-severity:
.. _imuxsock.parameter.module.syssock-ratelimit-severity-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   module(load="imuxsock" sysSock.rateLimit.severity="5")

Legacy names (for reference)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Historic names/directives for compatibility. Do not use in new configs.
.. _imuxsock.parameter.legacy.systemlogratelimitseverity:

- $SystemLogRateLimitSeverity — maps to SysSock.RateLimit.Severity (status: legacy)

.. index::
   single: imuxsock; $SystemLogRateLimitSeverity
   single: $SystemLogRateLimitSeverity

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imuxsock`.

Commit message:

core/ratelimit: add shared ratelimit() object and name binding
Provide a central place to define rate-limiting, improving UX and keeping
configs consistent across modules. This also sets the stage for future
rate-limit enhancements and makes containerized setups easier to tune.

Before: Each module had ad-hoc ratelimit.interval/burst; no reusable spec.
After: A ratelimit() object can be declared once and referenced via
ratelimit.name; inline params still work and are promoted to shared cfg.

Technical details:
- Add ratelimit config store to rsconf (init/destruct). New immutable
  ratelimit_config_t and helpers: ratelimitConfig{Create*,Lookup}, and
  ratelimitResolveFromValues() to resolve name vs inline with guard rails.
- New ratelimitNewFromConfig() binds runtime limiters to shared configs;
  legacy ratelimitSetLinuxLike()/SetSeverity() remain for inline cases.
- RainerScript: add CNFOBJ_RATELIMIT; implement ratelimitProcessCnf();
  lexer/parser accepts ratelimit(...).
- Global: support internalmsg.ratelimit.name (falls back to inline if
  unset); rsyslogd wires shared config for internal messages.
- Modules: imtcp, imudp, imptcp, imhttp, imjournal, imklog, imuxsock,
  omhttp, omelasticsearch, omfwd accept ratelimit.name; resolve configs
  at load and construct ratelimiters from them. imuxsock maps severity
  from the object when used.
- tcpsrv: SetLinuxLikeRatelimiters() now takes optional cfg pointer;
  interface version bumped to 29.
- Tests: add imtcp-ratelimit-object/legacy/impstats plus diag helpers to
  wait for and assert burst behavior. Docs updated across module pages,
  reference params, and new rainerscript/ratelimit page.

With the help of AI Agents: codex, gemini

doc/source/reference/parameters/imuxsock-syssock-ratelimit-severity.rst, after:

.. _param-imuxsock-syssock-ratelimit-severity:
.. _imuxsock.parameter.module.syssock-ratelimit-severity:

SysSock.RateLimit.Severity
==========================

.. index::
   single: imuxsock; SysSock.RateLimit.Severity
   single: SysSock.RateLimit.Severity

.. summary-start

Specifies which message severity levels are rate-limited on the system log socket.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imuxsock`.

:Name: SysSock.RateLimit.Severity
:Scope: module
:Type: integer
:Default: module=1
:Required?: no
:Introduced: at least 7.0.0, possibly earlier

Description
-----------
Specifies the severity of messages that shall be rate-limited.

.. note::

   When ``syssock.ratelimit.name`` is used, configure the severity inside
   the referenced :doc:`ratelimit object </rainerscript/ratelimit>`.

.. seealso::

   https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syslog#Severity_level

Module usage
------------
.. _param-imuxsock-module-syssock-ratelimit-severity:
.. _imuxsock.parameter.module.syssock-ratelimit-severity-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   module(load="imuxsock" sysSock.rateLimit.severity="5")

Legacy names (for reference)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Historic names/directives for compatibility. Do not use in new configs.
.. _imuxsock.parameter.legacy.systemlogratelimitseverity:

- $SystemLogRateLimitSeverity — maps to SysSock.RateLimit.Severity (status: legacy)

.. index::
   single: imuxsock; $SystemLogRateLimitSeverity
   single: $SystemLogRateLimitSeverity

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/imuxsock`.
