doc/source/reference/parameters/mmdarwin-fields.rst, before:

.. _param-mmdarwin-fields:
.. _mmdarwin.parameter.input.fields:

fields
======

.. index::
   single: mmdarwin; fields
   single: fields

.. summary-start

Defines the array of values that mmdarwin forwards to Darwin as parameters.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/mmdarwin`.

:Name: fields
:Scope: input
:Type: array
:Default: input=none
:Required?: yes
:Introduced: at least 8.x, possibly earlier

Description
-----------
Array containing values to be sent to Darwin as parameters.

Two types of values can be set:

* if it starts with a bang (:json:`"!"`), mmdarwin will search in the JSON-
  parsed log line for the associated value. To access nested properties,
  separate keys with a bang (for example, :json:`"!data!status"` reads the
  :json:`"status"` property inside the :json:`"data"` object).
* otherwise, the value is considered static, and will be forwarded directly to
  Darwin.

For example, given the following log line:

.. code-block:: json

   {
       "from": "192.168.1.42",
       "date": "2012-12-21 00:00:00",
       "status": "200",
       "data": {
           "status": true,
           "message": "Request processed correctly"
       }
   }

and the :json:`"fields"` array:

.. code-block:: none

   ["!from", "!data!status", "rsyslog"]

The parameters sent to Darwin would be :json:`"192.168.1.42"`, :json:`true` and
:json:`"rsyslog"`.

.. note::
   The order of the parameters is important. Thus, you have to be careful when
   providing the fields in the array.
   Refer to `Darwin documentation`_ to see what each filter requires as
   parameters.

.. _`Darwin documentation`: https://github.com/VultureProject/darwin/wiki

Input usage
-----------
.. _mmdarwin.parameter.input.fields-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   action(type="mmdarwin" fields=["!from", "!data!status", "rsyslog"])

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/mmdarwin`.

Commit message:

doc: clarify nested field description
Improve the mmdarwin fields parameter text per review feedback.

Spell out that additional bangs separate nested keys and clarify the note about matching the Darwin filter's expected ordering.

AI-Agent: ChatGPT

doc/source/reference/parameters/mmdarwin-fields.rst, after:

.. _param-mmdarwin-fields:
.. _mmdarwin.parameter.input.fields:

fields
======

.. index::
   single: mmdarwin; fields
   single: fields

.. summary-start

Defines the array of values that mmdarwin forwards to Darwin as parameters.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/mmdarwin`.

:Name: fields
:Scope: input
:Type: array
:Default: input=none
:Required?: yes
:Introduced: at least 8.x, possibly earlier

Description
-----------
Array containing values to be sent to Darwin as parameters.

Two types of values can be set:

* if it starts with a bang (:json:`"!"`), mmdarwin will search in the JSON-
  parsed log line for the associated value. For nested properties, use
  additional bangs as separators (for example, :json:`"!data!status"` reads
  the :json:`"status"` property inside the :json:`"data"` object).
* otherwise, the value is considered static, and will be forwarded directly to
  Darwin.

For example, given the following log line:

.. code-block:: json

   {
       "from": "192.168.1.42",
       "date": "2012-12-21 00:00:00",
       "status": "200",
       "data": {
           "status": true,
           "message": "Request processed correctly"
       }
   }

and the :json:`"fields"` array:

.. code-block:: none

   ["!from", "!data!status", "rsyslog"]

The parameters sent to Darwin would be :json:`"192.168.1.42"`, :json:`true` and
:json:`"rsyslog"`.

.. note::
   The order of the parameters is important and must match the order expected
   by the Darwin filter.
   Refer to `Darwin documentation`_ to see what each filter requires as
   parameters.

.. _`Darwin documentation`: https://github.com/VultureProject/darwin/wiki

Input usage
-----------
.. _mmdarwin.parameter.input.fields-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   action(type="mmdarwin" fields=["!from", "!data!status", "rsyslog"])

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/mmdarwin`.
