doc/source/reference/parameters/mmexternal-output.rst, before:

.. _param-mmexternal-output:
.. _mmexternal.parameter.input.output:

output
======

.. index::
   single: mmexternal; output
   single: output

.. summary-start

Writes the external plugin's standard output to a helper log file for
debugging.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/mmexternal`.

:Name: output
:Scope: input
:Type: string
:Default: none
:Required?: no
:Introduced: 8.3.0

Description
-----------
This is a debug aid. If set, this is a filename where the plugin's output is
logged. Note that the output is also being processed as usual by rsyslog.
Setting this parameter thus gives insight into the internal processing that
happens between plugin and rsyslog core.

Input usage
-----------
.. _mmexternal.parameter.input.output-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   module(load="mmexternal")

   action(
       type="mmexternal"
       binary="/path/to/mmexternal.py"
       output="/var/log/mmexternal-debug.log"
   )

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/mmexternal`.

Commit message:

doc/mmexternal: clarify interface and output docs
- document each interface.input value so users know what data the plugin receives\n- warn that mmexternal output logging captures stderr alongside stdout\n\nAI-Agent: ChatGPT

doc/source/reference/parameters/mmexternal-output.rst, after:

.. _param-mmexternal-output:
.. _mmexternal.parameter.input.output:

output
======

.. index::
   single: mmexternal; output
   single: output

.. summary-start

Writes the external plugin's standard output to a helper log file for
debugging.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/mmexternal`.

:Name: output
:Scope: input
:Type: string
:Default: none
:Required?: no
:Introduced: 8.3.0

Description
-----------
This is a debug aid. If set, this is a filename where the plugin's standard
output is logged. Note that the output is also being processed as usual by
rsyslog. Setting this parameter thus gives insight into the internal
processing that happens between plugin and rsyslog core.

.. warning::

   The external program's standard error stream is captured together with
   standard output. Any data written to stderr is intermingled with the JSON
   response from stdout and will likely cause parsing failures. Ensure the
   external program does not write to stderr.

Input usage
-----------
.. _mmexternal.parameter.input.output-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   module(load="mmexternal")

   action(
       type="mmexternal"
       binary="/path/to/mmexternal.py"
       output="/var/log/mmexternal-debug.log"
   )

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/mmexternal`.
