doc/source/reference/parameters/mmjsonparse-cookie.rst, before:

.. _param-mmjsonparse-cookie:
.. _mmjsonparse.parameter.input.cookie:

cookie
======

.. index::
   single: mmjsonparse; cookie
   single: cookie

.. summary-start

Defines the cookie string that must appear before the JSON content of a
message.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/mmjsonparse`.

:Name: cookie
:Scope: input
:Type: string
:Default: @cee:
:Required?: no
:Introduced: 6.6.0

Description
-----------
Permits setting the cookie that must be present in front of the JSON part of
the message.

Most importantly, this can be set to the empty string ("") to not require any
cookie. In this case, leading spaces are permitted in front of the JSON. No
non-whitespace characters are permitted after the JSON. If such is required,
a tool like :doc:`../../configuration/modules/mmnormalize` can be used.

Input usage
-----------
.. _mmjsonparse.parameter.input.cookie-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   action(type="mmjsonparse" cookie="")

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/mmjsonparse`.

Commit message:

mmjsonparse: refine parameter refs wording
- clarify that mmnormalize is referenced as a module\n- provide descriptive "See also" link text for mmjsonparse\n- wrap inline links to meet the documentation line-length policy\n\nAI-Agent: ChatGPT

doc/source/reference/parameters/mmjsonparse-cookie.rst, after:

.. _param-mmjsonparse-cookie:
.. _mmjsonparse.parameter.input.cookie:

cookie
======

.. index::
   single: mmjsonparse; cookie
   single: cookie

.. summary-start

Defines the cookie string that must appear before the JSON content of a
message.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/mmjsonparse`.

:Name: cookie
:Scope: input
:Type: string
:Default: @cee:
:Required?: no
:Introduced: 6.6.0

Description
-----------
Permits setting the cookie that must be present in front of the JSON part of
the message.

Most importantly, this can be set to the empty string ("") to not require any
cookie. In this case, leading spaces are permitted in front of the JSON. No
non-whitespace characters are permitted after the JSON. If such is required,
a tool like the :doc:`mmnormalize module
<../../configuration/modules/mmnormalize>` can be used.

Input usage
-----------
.. _mmjsonparse.parameter.input.cookie-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   action(type="mmjsonparse" cookie="")

See also
--------
See also the :doc:`main mmjsonparse module documentation
<../../configuration/modules/mmjsonparse>`.
