doc/source/reference/parameters/mmutf8fix-mode.rst, before:

.. _param-mmutf8fix-mode:
.. _mmutf8fix.parameter.input.mode:

mode
====

.. index::
   single: mmutf8fix; mode
   single: mode

.. summary-start

Selects how invalid byte sequences are detected and replaced.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/mmutf8fix`.

:Name: mode
:Scope: input
:Type: string
:Default: "utf-8"
:Required?: no
:Introduced: 7.5.4

Description
-----------
Sets the basic detection mode for invalid byte sequences.

``utf-8`` (default)
    Checks for proper UTF-8 encoding. Bytes that are not proper UTF-8
    sequences are replaced with the character defined by
    :ref:`param-mmutf8fix-replacementchar`. If a multi-byte start byte
    is followed by any invalid byte, the entire sequence is replaced.
    Control characters are not replaced because they are valid UTF-8.

``controlcharacters``
    Replaces all bytes that do not represent a printable US-ASCII
    character (codes 32 to 126) with the character defined by
    :ref:`param-mmutf8fix-replacementchar`. This invalidates valid
    UTF-8 multi-byte sequences and should be used only when characters
    outside the US-ASCII range are not expected.

Input usage
-----------
.. _mmutf8fix.parameter.input.mode-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   module(load="mmutf8fix")

   action(type="mmutf8fix" mode="controlcharacters")

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/mmutf8fix`.

Commit message:

mmutf8fix: note utf-8 mode suits non-US-ASCII inputs
restore usage hint for multibyte char sets\n\nAI-Agent: ChatGPT

doc/source/reference/parameters/mmutf8fix-mode.rst, after:

.. _param-mmutf8fix-mode:
.. _mmutf8fix.parameter.input.mode:

mode
====

.. index::
   single: mmutf8fix; mode
   single: mode

.. summary-start

Selects how invalid byte sequences are detected and replaced.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/mmutf8fix`.

:Name: mode
:Scope: input
:Type: string
:Default: "utf-8"
:Required?: no
:Introduced: 7.5.4

Description
-----------
Sets the basic detection mode for invalid byte sequences.

``utf-8`` (default)
    Checks for proper UTF-8 encoding. Bytes that are not proper UTF-8
    sequences are replaced with the character defined by
    :ref:`param-mmutf8fix-replacementchar`. If a multi-byte start byte
    is followed by any invalid byte, the entire sequence is replaced.
    Control characters are not replaced because they are valid UTF-8.
    This mode is most useful with non-US-ASCII character sets, which
    validly include multibyte sequences.

``controlcharacters``
    Replaces all bytes that do not represent a printable US-ASCII
    character (codes 32 to 126) with the character defined by
    :ref:`param-mmutf8fix-replacementchar`. This invalidates valid
    UTF-8 multi-byte sequences and should be used only when characters
    outside the US-ASCII range are not expected.

Input usage
-----------
.. _mmutf8fix.parameter.input.mode-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   module(load="mmutf8fix")

   action(type="mmutf8fix" mode="controlcharacters")

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/mmutf8fix`.
