doc/source/reference/parameters/omazureeventhubs-amqp_address.rst, before:

.. _param-omazureeventhubs-amqp_address:
.. _omazureeventhubs.parameter.input.amqp_address:

amqp_address
============

.. index::
   single: omazureeventhubs; amqp_address
   single: amqp_address

.. summary-start

Provides a full AMQPS connection string that overrides individual Azure settings.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/omazureeventhubs`.

:Name: amqp_address
:Scope: input
:Type: word
:Default: input=none
:Required?: no
:Introduced: v8.2304

Description
-----------
The configuration property for the AMQP address used to connect to Microsoft
Azure Event Hubs is typically referred to as the "Event Hubs connection string".
It specifies the URL that is used to connect to the target Event Hubs instance
in Microsoft Azure. If ``amqpAddress`` is configured, the configuration
parameters for ``azureHost``, ``azurePort``, ``azureKeyName`` and ``azureKey``
will be ignored.

A sample Event Hubs connection string URL is:

.. code-block:: none

   amqps://<SAS_KEY_NAME>:<SAS_KEY>@<NAMESPACE>.servicebus.windows.net/<EVENT_HUB_INSTANCE>

Input usage
-----------
.. _omazureeventhubs.parameter.input.amqp_address-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   action(type="omazureeventhubs" amqpAddress="amqps://user:key@namespace.servicebus.windows.net/hub" ...)

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/omazureeventhubs`.

Commit message:

omazureeventhubs: tighten parameter descriptions
- streamline amqpAddress guidance around overriding the individual Azure settings\n- condense the shared access key and key-name descriptions and clarify the container event hub target\n\nAI-Agent: ChatGPT

doc/source/reference/parameters/omazureeventhubs-amqp_address.rst, after:

.. _param-omazureeventhubs-amqp_address:
.. _omazureeventhubs.parameter.input.amqp_address:

amqp_address
============

.. index::
   single: omazureeventhubs; amqp_address
   single: amqp_address

.. summary-start

Provides a full AMQPS connection string that overrides individual Azure settings.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/omazureeventhubs`.

:Name: amqp_address
:Scope: input
:Type: word
:Default: input=none
:Required?: no
:Introduced: v8.2304

Description
-----------
Specifies the "Event Hubs connection string", a full AMQPS URL used to connect
to the target Event Hubs instance. When this parameter is set, it overrides the
individual ``azureHost``, ``azurePort``, ``azureKeyName``, and ``azureKey``
parameters.

A sample Event Hubs connection string URL is:

.. code-block:: none

   amqps://<SAS_KEY_NAME>:<SAS_KEY>@<NAMESPACE>.servicebus.windows.net/<EVENT_HUB_INSTANCE>

Input usage
-----------
.. _omazureeventhubs.parameter.input.amqp_address-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   action(type="omazureeventhubs" amqpAddress="amqps://user:key@namespace.servicebus.windows.net/hub" ...)

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/omazureeventhubs`.
