doc/source/reference/parameters/omelasticsearch-esversion-major.rst, before:

.. _param-omelasticsearch-esversion-major:
.. _omelasticsearch.parameter.module.esversion-major:
.. _omelasticsearch.parameter.module.esVersion.major:

esVersion.major
===============

.. index::
   single: omelasticsearch; esVersion.major
   single: esVersion.major

.. summary-start

Deprecated manual override for the detected Elasticsearch/OpenSearch major
version.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/omelasticsearch`.

:Name: esVersion.major
:Scope: action
:Type: integer
:Default: action=0 (overridden when detection succeeds)
:Required?: no
:Introduced: at least 8.x, possibly earlier

Description
-----------
.. warning::

   This parameter is deprecated.  The module performs a best-effort probe at
   startup to discover the target platform (Elasticsearch or OpenSearch) and
   its version, and ``esVersion.major`` is automatically updated with the
   detected major version when the probe succeeds.

This setting is only consulted when detection fails or when no servers are
reachable during startup.  Administrators may keep it configured as a fallback
for air-gapped or permission-restricted environments, but future releases may
remove the option entirely.

Action usage
------------
.. _param-omelasticsearch-action-esversion-major:
.. _omelasticsearch.parameter.action.esversion-major:
.. code-block:: rsyslog

   action(type="omelasticsearch" esVersion.major="...")

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/omelasticsearch`.

Commit message:

omelasticsearch: finalize platform probe defaults
- defer version-specific defaults until after detection so modern
  clusters avoid legacy fallbacks when the probe succeeds while still
  enforcing the pre-8 requirements when detection fails
- remember when the module synthesized the legacy index so it can be
  dropped once a newer platform is detected and keep retryruleset
  resolution outside the detection error path; treat detection OOM as
  fatal
- document that the startup probe ships in 8.2510.0 and mark
  esVersion.major deprecated from that release

Testing:
- devtools/format-code.sh
- make (fails: No targets specified and no makefile found)

AI-Agent: Codex

doc/source/reference/parameters/omelasticsearch-esversion-major.rst, after:

.. _param-omelasticsearch-esversion-major:
.. _omelasticsearch.parameter.module.esversion-major:
.. _omelasticsearch.parameter.module.esVersion.major:

esVersion.major
===============

.. index::
   single: omelasticsearch; esVersion.major
   single: esVersion.major

.. summary-start

Deprecated manual override for the detected Elasticsearch/OpenSearch major
version.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/omelasticsearch`.

:Name: esVersion.major
:Scope: action
:Type: integer
:Default: action=0 (overridden when detection succeeds)
:Required?: no
:Introduced: at least 8.x, possibly earlier

Description
-----------
.. warning::

   This parameter is deprecated as of rsyslog 8.2510.0.  The module performs a
   best-effort probe at
   startup to discover the target platform (Elasticsearch or OpenSearch) and
   its version, and ``esVersion.major`` is automatically updated with the
   detected major version when the probe succeeds.

.. versionchanged:: 8.2510.0
   Automatically overridden when startup platform detection succeeds.

This setting is only consulted when detection fails or when no servers are
reachable during startup.  Administrators may keep it configured as a fallback
for air-gapped or permission-restricted environments, but future releases may
remove the option entirely.

Action usage
------------
.. _param-omelasticsearch-action-esversion-major:
.. _omelasticsearch.parameter.action.esversion-major:
.. code-block:: rsyslog

   action(type="omelasticsearch" esVersion.major="...")

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/omelasticsearch`.
