doc/source/reference/parameters/omfile-rotation-sizelimitcommand.rst, before:

.. _param-omfile-rotation-sizelimitcommand:
.. _omfile.parameter.module.rotation-sizelimitcommand:

rotation.sizeLimitCommand
=========================

.. index::
   single: omfile; rotation.sizeLimitCommand
   single: rotation.sizeLimitCommand

.. summary-start

Configures the script invoked when `rotation.sizeLimit` is exceeded.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/omfile`.

:Name: rotation.sizeLimitCommand
:Scope: action
:Type: string
:Default: action=(empty)
:Required?: no
:Introduced: at least 5.x, possibly earlier

Description
-----------

This sets the command executed when a file hits the configured size limit.
Use together with :ref:`param-omfile-rotation-sizelimit`.

Action usage
------------

.. _param-omfile-action-rotation-sizelimitcommand:
.. _omfile.parameter.action.rotation-sizelimitcommand:
.. code-block:: rsyslog

   action(type="omfile" rotation.sizeLimitCommand="...")

Notes
-----

- Legacy documentation referred to the type as ``binary``; the value is a command string.

Legacy names (for reference)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Historic names/directives for compatibility. Do not use in new configs.

.. _omfile.parameter.legacy.outchannel:

- $outchannel — maps to rotation.sizeLimitCommand (status: legacy)

.. index::
   single: omfile; $outchannel
   single: $outchannel

See also
--------

See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/omfile`.

Commit message:

omfile: pass size-limit file to rotate cmd
Why: rotation scripts need the target file name to act without
external logrotate and to retain existing args.

Impact: new action param rotation.sizeLimitCommandPassFileName
(default on) appends the file name; legacy outchannel stays unchanged.

Before: sizeLimitCommand could pass at most one arg and never the
current file name.
After: optional file name is appended as the last argument when enabled.

Technical Overview:
- Add rotation.sizeLimitCommandPassFileName and plumb to streams.
- Default to on for action config; disable for legacy outchannel.
- Simplify execProg to accept up to two args and update callers.
- Update docs/tutorial and register new doc in doc/Makefile.am.
- Extend size-limit test to validate arg order and file name.

Issue: https://github.com/rsyslog/rsyslog/issues/6435

Tests: make -j$(nproc) check TESTS=""; ./tests/omfile-sizelimitcmd-many.sh

With the help of AI-Agents: Codex

doc/source/reference/parameters/omfile-rotation-sizelimitcommand.rst, after:

.. _param-omfile-rotation-sizelimitcommand:
.. _omfile.parameter.module.rotation-sizelimitcommand:

rotation.sizeLimitCommand
=========================

.. index::
   single: omfile; rotation.sizeLimitCommand
   single: rotation.sizeLimitCommand

.. summary-start

Configures the script invoked when `rotation.sizeLimit` is exceeded.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/omfile`.

:Name: rotation.sizeLimitCommand
:Scope: action
:Type: string
:Default: action=(empty)
:Required?: no
:Introduced: at least 5.x, possibly earlier

Description
-----------

This sets the command executed when a file hits the configured size limit.
Use together with :ref:`param-omfile-rotation-sizelimit`.

By default, the current file name is passed as the last argument. Disable
this behavior with :ref:`param-omfile-rotation-sizelimitcommandpassfilename`
if your script expects no additional arguments.

Action usage
------------

.. _param-omfile-action-rotation-sizelimitcommand:
.. _omfile.parameter.action.rotation-sizelimitcommand:
.. code-block:: rsyslog

   action(type="omfile" rotation.sizeLimitCommand="...")

Notes
-----

- Legacy documentation referred to the type as ``binary``; the value is a command string.

Legacy names (for reference)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Historic names/directives for compatibility. Do not use in new configs.

.. _omfile.parameter.legacy.outchannel:

- $outchannel — maps to rotation.sizeLimitCommand (status: legacy)

.. index::
   single: omfile; $outchannel
   single: $outchannel

See also
--------

See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/omfile`.
