doc/source/reference/parameters/omhdfs-omhdfsdefaulttemplate.rst, before:

.. _param-omhdfs-omhdfsdefaulttemplate:
.. _omhdfs.parameter.module.omhdfsdefaulttemplate:

omhdfsDefaultTemplate
=====================

.. index::
   single: omhdfs; omhdfsDefaultTemplate
   single: omhdfsDefaultTemplate

.. summary-start

Sets the template omhdfs applies when no template is specified for an action.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/omhdfs`.

:Name: omhdfsDefaultTemplate
:Scope: module
:Type: word
:Default: RSYSLOG_FileFormat
:Required?: no
:Introduced: Not documented

Description
-----------
Default template to be used when none is specified. This saves the work of
specifying the same template repeatedly. Of course, the default
template can be overwritten via the usual method.

Module usage
------------
.. _omhdfs.parameter.module.omhdfsdefaulttemplate-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   $ModLoad omhdfs
   $omhdfsFileName /var/log/hdfs/system.log
   $omhdfsDefaultTemplate RSYSLOG_FileFormat
   # write all messages to HDFS using the custom default template
   *.* :omhdfs:

Legacy names (for reference)
----------------------------
Historic names/directives for compatibility. Do not use in new configs.

.. _omhdfs.parameter.legacy.omhdfsdefaulttemplate:

- ``$OMHDFSDefaultTemplate`` — maps to ``omhdfsDefaultTemplate``
  (status: legacy)

.. index::
   single: omhdfs; $OMHDFSDefaultTemplate
   single: $OMHDFSDefaultTemplate

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/omhdfs`.

Commit message:

omhdfs: clarify default template override guidance
- explain how to override the default template directly on actions to make
the documentation more explicit for readers

Testing:
- for f in doc/source/reference/parameters/omhdfs-*.rst doc/source/configuration/modules/omhdfs.rst; do python3 -m docutils.core --halt=2 --report=2 --strict --reader=standalone --writer=pseudoxml "$f"; done

AI-Agent: ChatGPT

doc/source/reference/parameters/omhdfs-omhdfsdefaulttemplate.rst, after:

.. _param-omhdfs-omhdfsdefaulttemplate:
.. _omhdfs.parameter.module.omhdfsdefaulttemplate:

omhdfsDefaultTemplate
=====================

.. index::
   single: omhdfs; omhdfsDefaultTemplate
   single: omhdfsDefaultTemplate

.. summary-start

Sets the template omhdfs applies when no template is specified for an action.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/omhdfs`.

:Name: omhdfsDefaultTemplate
:Scope: module
:Type: word
:Default: RSYSLOG_FileFormat
:Required?: no
:Introduced: Not documented

Description
-----------
Default template to be used when none is specified. This saves the work of
specifying the same template repeatedly. Of course, the default
template can be overwritten by specifying a template directly on an action.

Module usage
------------
.. _omhdfs.parameter.module.omhdfsdefaulttemplate-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   $ModLoad omhdfs
   $omhdfsFileName /var/log/hdfs/system.log
   $omhdfsDefaultTemplate RSYSLOG_FileFormat
   # write all messages to HDFS using the custom default template
   *.* :omhdfs:

Legacy names (for reference)
----------------------------
Historic names/directives for compatibility. Do not use in new configs.

.. _omhdfs.parameter.legacy.omhdfsdefaulttemplate:

- ``$OMHDFSDefaultTemplate`` — maps to ``omhdfsDefaultTemplate``
  (status: legacy)

.. index::
   single: omhdfs; $OMHDFSDefaultTemplate
   single: $OMHDFSDefaultTemplate

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/omhdfs`.
