doc/source/reference/parameters/omhdfs-omhdfsport.rst, before:

.. _param-omhdfs-omhdfsport:
.. _omhdfs.parameter.module.omhdfsport:

omhdfsPort
==========

.. index::
   single: omhdfs; omhdfsPort
   single: omhdfsPort

.. summary-start

Specifies the TCP port number used to reach the configured HDFS host.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/omhdfs`.

:Name: omhdfsPort
:Scope: module
:Type: integer
:Default: 0
:Required?: no
:Introduced: Not documented

Description
-----------
Port on which to connect to the HDFS host.

Module usage
------------
.. _omhdfs.parameter.module.omhdfsport-usage:

.. code-block:: none

   $ModLoad omhdfs
   $omhdfsHost hdfs01.example.net
   $omhdfsPort 8020
   $omhdfsFileName /var/log/hdfs/system.log
   # write all messages to the specified HDFS host and port
   *.* :omhdfs:

Legacy names (for reference)
----------------------------
Historic names/directives for compatibility. Do not use in new configs.

.. _omhdfs.parameter.legacy.omhdfsport:

- ``$OMHDFSPort`` — maps to ``omhdfsPort``
  (status: legacy)

.. index::
   single: omhdfs; $OMHDFSPort
   single: $OMHDFSPort

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/omhdfs`.

Commit message:

doc: restructure and modernize project history; add origins page and xrefs
- Split legacy history content into two focused documents:
  * about/history.rst – rsyslog history (2004–present, reverse-chronological)
  * about/origins.rst – syslog heritage (1983–2003)
- Added missing cross-references to existing docs (Beginner’s Guide,
  omelasticsearch, modules index, containers).
- Strengthened 1983 BSD syslogd heritage statement.
- Created redirect stub for old doc/history.rst.
- Updated about/index.rst to include new origins page.
- Polished timelines, wording, and structure for clarity and long-term maintainability.

With the help of AI-Agent: ryslog doc assistant (openai based)

doc/source/reference/parameters/omhdfs-omhdfsport.rst, after:

.. _param-omhdfs-omhdfsport:
.. _omhdfs.parameter.module.omhdfsport:

omhdfsPort
==========

.. index::
   single: omhdfs; omhdfsPort
   single: omhdfsPort

.. summary-start

Specifies the TCP port number used to reach the configured HDFS host.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/omhdfs`.

:Name: omhdfsPort
:Scope: module
:Type: integer
:Default: 0
:Required?: no
:Introduced: Not documented

Description
-----------
Port on which to connect to the HDFS host.

Module usage
------------
.. _omhdfs.parameter.module.omhdfsport-usage:

<<<<<<< HEAD
.. code-block:: none
=======
.. code-block:: text
>>>>>>> 717d9e259 (doc: restructure and modernize project history; add origins page and xrefs)

   $ModLoad omhdfs
   $omhdfsHost hdfs01.example.net
   $omhdfsPort 8020
   $omhdfsFileName /var/log/hdfs/system.log
   # write all messages to the specified HDFS host and port
   *.* :omhdfs:

Legacy names (for reference)
----------------------------
Historic names/directives for compatibility. Do not use in new configs.

.. _omhdfs.parameter.legacy.omhdfsport:

- ``$OMHDFSPort`` — maps to ``omhdfsPort``
  (status: legacy)

.. index::
   single: omhdfs; $OMHDFSPort
   single: $OMHDFSPort

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/omhdfs`.
