doc/source/reference/parameters/omjournal-template.rst, before:

.. _param-omjournal-template:
.. _omjournal.parameter.action.template:

template
========

.. index::
   single: omjournal; template
   single: template

.. summary-start

Selects the template that formats journal entries before they are written.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/omjournal`.

:Name: template
:Scope: action
:Type: word
:Default: none
:Required?: no
:Introduced: 8.17.0

Description
-----------
Template to use when submitting messages.

By default, rsyslog will use the incoming ``%msg%`` as the ``MESSAGE`` field
of the journald entry. It also includes ``SYSLOG_IDENTIFIER`` (from the tag),
``SYSLOG_FACILITY``, and ``PRIORITY`` (derived from facility and severity).

You can override the default formatting of the message, and include
custom fields with a template.

.. warning::

   Complex JSON objects or arrays from ``json`` or ``subtree`` templates
   are **not** supported. The omjournal action currently converts each
   field via ``json_object_get_string()``, which returns ``NULL`` for
   nested JSON structures and leads to a crash inside
   ``build_iovec()``. Emit only values that convert cleanly to strings
   (plain text, numbers, booleans) until this limitation is fixed.

Journald requires that the template's output contains a field named ``MESSAGE``.

Action usage
------------
.. _param-omjournal-action-template:
.. _omjournal.parameter.action.template-usage:

.. code-block:: shell

   action(type="omjournal" template="journal")

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/omjournal`.

Commit message:

omjournal: clarify namespace guidance and template warning
Document how to provision journal namespaces in the omjournal namespace parameter page and link the template crash warning to the historical issue for additional context.

AI-Agent: ChatGPT

doc/source/reference/parameters/omjournal-template.rst, after:

.. _param-omjournal-template:
.. _omjournal.parameter.action.template:

template
========

.. index::
   single: omjournal; template
   single: template

.. summary-start

Selects the template that formats journal entries before they are written.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/omjournal`.

:Name: template
:Scope: action
:Type: word
:Default: none
:Required?: no
:Introduced: 8.17.0

Description
-----------
Template to use when submitting messages.

By default, rsyslog will use the incoming ``%msg%`` as the ``MESSAGE`` field
of the journald entry. It also includes ``SYSLOG_IDENTIFIER`` (from the tag),
``SYSLOG_FACILITY``, and ``PRIORITY`` (derived from facility and severity).

You can override the default formatting of the message, and include
custom fields with a template.

.. warning::

   Complex JSON objects or arrays from ``json`` or ``subtree`` templates
   are **not** supported. The omjournal action currently converts each
   field via ``json_object_get_string()``, which returns ``NULL`` for
   nested JSON structures and leads to a crash inside
   ``build_iovec()``. Emit only values that convert cleanly to strings
   (plain text, numbers, booleans) until this limitation is fixed. See
   `rsyslog issue #881 <https://github.com/rsyslog/rsyslog/issues/881>`_
   for background on the crash.

Journald requires that the template's output contains a field named ``MESSAGE``.

Action usage
------------
.. _param-omjournal-action-template:
.. _omjournal.parameter.action.template-usage:

.. code-block:: shell

   action(type="omjournal" template="journal")

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/omjournal`.
