doc/source/reference/parameters/ommail-mailto.rst, before:

.. _param-ommail-mailto:
.. _ommail.parameter.input.mailto:

MailTo
======

.. index::
   single: ommail; MailTo
   single: MailTo

.. summary-start

Provides one or more recipient email addresses for each mail sent by ommail.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/ommail`.

:Name: MailTo
:Scope: input
:Type: array
:Default: input=none
:Required?: yes
:Introduced: 8.5.0

Description
-----------
The recipient email address(es). This is an array parameter, so multiple
recipients can be provided in a list.

Input usage
------------
.. _ommail.parameter.input.mailto-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   module(load="ommail")
   action(
       type="ommail"
       server="mail.example.net"
       port="25"
       mailFrom="rsyslog@example.net"
       mailTo=["operator@example.net", "admin@example.net"]
   )

Legacy names (for reference)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Historic names/directives for compatibility. Do not use in new configs.

.. _ommail.parameter.legacy.actionmailto:

- $ActionMailTo — maps to MailTo (status: legacy)

.. index::
   single: ommail; $ActionMailTo
   single: $ActionMailTo

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/ommail`.

Commit message:

ommail: clarify single-recipient mailTo usage
Document that mailTo accepts a single string recipient as well as an array so users can configure a solo address without confusion.

AI-Agent: ChatGPT

doc/source/reference/parameters/ommail-mailto.rst, after:

.. _param-ommail-mailto:
.. _ommail.parameter.input.mailto:

MailTo
======

.. index::
   single: ommail; MailTo
   single: MailTo

.. summary-start

Provides one or more recipient email addresses for each mail sent by ommail.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/ommail`.

:Name: MailTo
:Scope: input
:Type: array
:Default: input=none
:Required?: yes
:Introduced: 8.5.0

Description
-----------
The recipient email address(es). This is an array parameter, so multiple
recipients can be provided in a list. For a single recipient, a simple string
value is also accepted (for example, ``mailTo="operator@example.net"``).

Input usage
------------
.. _ommail.parameter.input.mailto-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   module(load="ommail")
   action(
       type="ommail"
       server="mail.example.net"
       port="25"
       mailFrom="rsyslog@example.net"
       mailTo=["operator@example.net", "admin@example.net"]
   )

Legacy names (for reference)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Historic names/directives for compatibility. Do not use in new configs.

.. _ommail.parameter.legacy.actionmailto:

- $ActionMailTo — maps to MailTo (status: legacy)

.. index::
   single: ommail; $ActionMailTo
   single: $ActionMailTo

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/ommail`.
