doc/source/reference/parameters/ommail-port.rst, before:

.. _param-ommail-port:
.. _ommail.parameter.module.port:

Port
====

.. index::
   single: ommail; Port
   single: Port

.. summary-start
 
Sets the SMTP port number or service name that ommail uses to send mail.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/ommail`.

:Name: Port
:Scope: module
:Type: word
:Default: module=none
:Required?: yes
:Introduced: 8.5.0

Description
-----------
Port number or name of the SMTP port to be used. The default SMTP port is 25.

Module usage
------------
.. _param-ommail-module-port:
.. _ommail.parameter.module.port-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   module(load="ommail")
   action(type="ommail" port="25")

Legacy names (for reference)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Historic names/directives for compatibility. Do not use in new configs.

.. _ommail.parameter.legacy.actionmailsmtpport:

- $ActionMailSMTPPort — maps to Port (status: legacy)

.. index::
   single: ommail; $ActionMailSMTPPort
   single: $ActionMailSMTPPort

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/ommail`.

Commit message:

ommail: tidy summaries and clarify port requirement
- remove stray spaces in parameter summaries for consistency\n- clarify Port description to reflect required configuration despite legacy default\n\nAI-Agent: ChatGPT

doc/source/reference/parameters/ommail-port.rst, after:

.. _param-ommail-port:
.. _ommail.parameter.module.port:

Port
====

.. index::
   single: ommail; Port
   single: Port

.. summary-start

Sets the SMTP port number or service name that ommail uses to send mail.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/ommail`.

:Name: Port
:Scope: module
:Type: word
:Default: module=none
:Required?: yes
:Introduced: 8.5.0

Description
-----------
Port number or name of the SMTP port to be used. While the module may fall back to port 25 in some legacy scenarios, this parameter is required and must be set explicitly in modern configurations.

Module usage
------------
.. _param-ommail-module-port:
.. _ommail.parameter.module.port-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   module(load="ommail")
   action(type="ommail" port="25")

Legacy names (for reference)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Historic names/directives for compatibility. Do not use in new configs.

.. _ommail.parameter.legacy.actionmailsmtpport:

- $ActionMailSMTPPort — maps to Port (status: legacy)

.. index::
   single: ommail; $ActionMailSMTPPort
   single: $ActionMailSMTPPort

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/ommail`.
