doc/source/reference/parameters/ommail-server.rst, before:

.. _param-ommail-server:
.. _ommail.parameter.input.server:

Server
======

.. index::
   single: ommail; Server
   single: Server

.. summary-start

Specifies the hostname or IP address of the SMTP server used by ommail actions.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/ommail`.

:Name: Server
:Scope: input
:Type: word
:Default: input=none
:Required?: yes
:Introduced: 8.5.0

Description
-----------
Name or IP address of the SMTP server to be used. Must currently be set. The
default SMTP server is 127.0.0.1 on the local machine, but it should
generally be specified explicitly.

Input usage
------------
.. _ommail.parameter.input.server-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   module(load="ommail")
   action(type="ommail" server="mail.example.net")

Legacy names (for reference)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Historic names/directives for compatibility. Do not use in new configs.

.. _ommail.parameter.legacy.actionmailsmtpserver:

- $ActionMailSMTPServer — maps to Server (status: legacy)

.. index::
   single: ommail; $ActionMailSMTPServer
   single: $ActionMailSMTPServer

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/ommail`.

Commit message:

ommail: clarify server parameter guidance
Clarify the server parameter description to distinguish legacy defaults from modern required configuration and keep consistency with other parameters.

AI-Agent: ChatGPT

doc/source/reference/parameters/ommail-server.rst, after:

.. _param-ommail-server:
.. _ommail.parameter.input.server:

Server
======

.. index::
   single: ommail; Server
   single: Server

.. summary-start

Specifies the hostname or IP address of the SMTP server used by ommail actions.

.. summary-end

This parameter applies to :doc:`../../configuration/modules/ommail`.

:Name: Server
:Scope: input
:Type: word
:Default: input=none
:Required?: yes
:Introduced: 8.5.0

Description
-----------
Name or IP address of the SMTP server to be used. While a default of
127.0.0.1 (the local machine) exists for legacy configurations, this
parameter is required and must be set explicitly in modern configurations.

Input usage
------------
.. _ommail.parameter.input.server-usage:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   module(load="ommail")
   action(type="ommail" server="mail.example.net")

Legacy names (for reference)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Historic names/directives for compatibility. Do not use in new configs.

.. _ommail.parameter.legacy.actionmailsmtpserver:

- $ActionMailSMTPServer — maps to Server (status: legacy)

.. index::
   single: ommail; $ActionMailSMTPServer
   single: $ActionMailSMTPServer

See also
--------
See also :doc:`../../configuration/modules/ommail`.
