doc/source/getting_started/index.rst, before:

.. _getting_started:

Getting Started with rsyslog
############################

rsyslog is a modern, high-performance logging service and the default
system logger on many Linux distributions. It extends traditional syslog
with advanced features like structured logging, reliable TCP/TLS
delivery, and integration with modern pipelines (e.g., Elasticsearch,
Kafka, or cloud services).

This guide helps you get up and running quickly. It includes:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   beginner_tutorials/index
   ai-assistants
   installation
   basic_configuration
   understanding_default_config
   forwarding_logs
   next_steps

----

**Quick Start (for experienced users):**

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo apt install rsyslog
   sudo systemctl enable --now rsyslog

The following pages explain these steps in more detail.

.. _getting-started-versioning:

Understanding rsyslog version numbers
=====================================

Every regular rsyslog release is tagged ``8.yymm.0``. The constant ``8`` marks
the current major series, ``yymm`` tells you the year and month of the build,
and the trailing digit starts at ``0`` and only increments when a quick
follow-up fix ships. Seeing a version such as ``8.2404.0`` instantly reveals it
was published in April 2024 and is part of the same feature level as any other
``8.2404.x`` package. Stable builds arrive roughly every second month in even
numbered months, typically on a Tuesday around mid-month, with an earlier
December drop to avoid holiday downtime. If your installation shows a much
older ``yymm`` value, plan an upgrade to keep up with supported features and
fixes.

Newcomers can read the full background and rationale in
:ref:`about-release-versioning`.

Commit message:

feat(deploy): add ROSI Collector centralized log collection stack
Add production-ready Docker Compose stack for centralized log collection
and monitoring, migrated from rsyslog-do-infra/central-intern.

ROSI (RSyslog Open System for Information) Collector provides:
- rsyslog log receiver with omhttp output to Loki
- Grafana Loki for log storage (30-day retention)
- Grafana with 5 pre-built dashboards
- Prometheus for metrics collection
- Traefik reverse proxy with automatic Let's Encrypt TLS
- TLS/mTLS syslog reception on port 6514 (RFC 5425)

TLS support features:
- Optional TLS profile activated via: docker compose --profile tls up -d
- Environment variable configuration (ENABLE_TLS, TLS_CA_FILE, etc.)
- Auth modes: anon, x509/certvalid, x509/name
- generate-ca.sh: Create CA and server certificates
- generate-client-cert.sh: Generate client certs with secure one-time
  download packages, migration handling, and syslog user ownership
- Automatic UFW firewall configuration for port 6514

Management scripts installed to /usr/local/bin:
- rosi-monitor: Stack health monitoring and debugging
- rosi-generate-ca: Generate CA and server TLS certificates
- rosi-generate-client-cert: Generate client TLS certificates
- prometheus-target: Manage node exporter scrape targets

Configuration persistence via XDG-compliant config files:
- System: /etc/rsyslog/rosi-collector.conf
- User: ~/.config/rsyslog/rosi-collector.conf

Files added:
- deploy/docker-compose/rosi-collector/ (31 files)
- doc/source/deployments/rosi_collector/ (7 RST pages)
- doc/source/deployments/index.rst
- doc/source/_static/rosi-architecture.svg
- doc/source/_static/*.png (dashboard screenshots)

Updated doc/source/index.rst to include deployments in toctree.

closes: https://github.com/rsyslog/rsyslog/issues/6323

doc/source/getting_started/index.rst, after:

.. _getting_started:

Getting Started with rsyslog
############################

rsyslog is a modern, high-performance logging service and the default
system logger on many Linux distributions. It extends traditional syslog
with advanced features like structured logging, reliable TCP/TLS
delivery, and integration with modern pipelines (e.g., Elasticsearch,
Kafka, or cloud services).

This guide helps you get up and running quickly. For a complete
production deployment with dashboards and monitoring, see
:doc:`../deployments/rosi_collector/index`.

It includes:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   beginner_tutorials/index
   ai-assistants
   installation
   basic_configuration
   understanding_default_config
   forwarding_logs
   next_steps

----

**Quick Start (for experienced users):**

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo apt install rsyslog
   sudo systemctl enable --now rsyslog

The following pages explain these steps in more detail.

.. _getting-started-versioning:

Understanding rsyslog version numbers
=====================================

Every regular rsyslog release is tagged ``8.yymm.0``. The constant ``8`` marks
the current major series, ``yymm`` tells you the year and month of the build,
and the trailing digit starts at ``0`` and only increments when a quick
follow-up fix ships. Seeing a version such as ``8.2404.0`` instantly reveals it
was published in April 2024 and is part of the same feature level as any other
``8.2404.x`` package. Stable builds arrive roughly every second month in even
numbered months, typically on a Tuesday around mid-month, with an earlier
December drop to avoid holiday downtime. If your installation shows a much
older ``yymm`` value, plan an upgrade to keep up with supported features and
fixes.

Newcomers can read the full background and rationale in
:ref:`about-release-versioning`.
