doc/source/rainerscript/configuration_objects.rst, before:

configuration objects
=====================

.. note::

  Configuration object parameters are case-insensitive.

Common Parameters
-----------------

config.enabled
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. versionadded:: 8.33.0

All configuration objects have a ``config.enabled`` parameter.
For auto-generated configs, it is useful to have the ability to disable some
config constructs even though they may be specified inside the config. This
can be done via the ``config.enabled`` parameter.
If set to ``on`` or not specified, the construct will be
used, if set to any other value, it will be ignored.
This can be used together with the backtick functionality to enable or
disable parts of the configuration from either a file or environment variable.

Example:

Let's say we want to conditionally load a module. Environment variable
``LOAD_IMPTCP`` will be either unset or ``off`` .
Then we can use this config construct:

.. code-block:: none
   :emphasize-lines: 2

    module(load="imptcp"
        config.enabled=`echo $LOAD_IMPTCP`)

If the variable is set to ``off``, the module will **not** be loaded.

Objects
-------

action()
^^^^^^^^

The :doc:`action <../configuration/actions>`  object is the primary means of
describing actions to be carried out.

global()
^^^^^^^^

This is used to set global configuration parameters. For details, please
see the :doc:`rsyslog global configuration object <global>`.

input()
^^^^^^^

The :doc:`input <../configuration/input>` object is the primary means of
describing inputs, which are used to gather messages for rsyslog processing.

module()
^^^^^^^^

The module object is used to load plugins.

parser()
^^^^^^^^

The :doc:`parser <../configuration/parser>` object is used to define
custom parser objects.

timezone()
^^^^^^^^^^

The :doc:`timezone <../configuration/timezone>` object is used to define
timezone settings.

include()
^^^^^^^^^

The :doc:`include <include>`  object is use to include configuration snippets
stored elsewhere into the configuration.

Commit message:

core/ratelimit: add shared ratelimit() object and name binding
Provide a central place to define rate-limiting, improving UX and keeping
configs consistent across modules. This also sets the stage for future
rate-limit enhancements and makes containerized setups easier to tune.

Before: Each module had ad-hoc ratelimit.interval/burst; no reusable spec.
After: A ratelimit() object can be declared once and referenced via
ratelimit.name; inline params still work and are promoted to shared cfg.

Technical details:
- Add ratelimit config store to rsconf (init/destruct). New immutable
  ratelimit_config_t and helpers: ratelimitConfig{Create*,Lookup}, and
  ratelimitResolveFromValues() to resolve name vs inline with guard rails.
- New ratelimitNewFromConfig() binds runtime limiters to shared configs;
  legacy ratelimitSetLinuxLike()/SetSeverity() remain for inline cases.
- RainerScript: add CNFOBJ_RATELIMIT; implement ratelimitProcessCnf();
  lexer/parser accepts ratelimit(...).
- Global: support internalmsg.ratelimit.name (falls back to inline if
  unset); rsyslogd wires shared config for internal messages.
- Modules: imtcp, imudp, imptcp, imhttp, imjournal, imklog, imuxsock,
  omhttp, omelasticsearch, omfwd accept ratelimit.name; resolve configs
  at load and construct ratelimiters from them. imuxsock maps severity
  from the object when used.
- tcpsrv: SetLinuxLikeRatelimiters() now takes optional cfg pointer;
  interface version bumped to 29.
- Tests: add imtcp-ratelimit-object/legacy/impstats plus diag helpers to
  wait for and assert burst behavior. Docs updated across module pages,
  reference params, and new rainerscript/ratelimit page.

With the help of AI Agents: codex, gemini

doc/source/rainerscript/configuration_objects.rst, after:

configuration objects
=====================

.. note::

  Configuration object parameters are case-insensitive.

Common Parameters
-----------------

config.enabled
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. versionadded:: 8.33.0

All configuration objects have a ``config.enabled`` parameter.
For auto-generated configs, it is useful to have the ability to disable some
config constructs even though they may be specified inside the config. This
can be done via the ``config.enabled`` parameter.
If set to ``on`` or not specified, the construct will be
used, if set to any other value, it will be ignored.
This can be used together with the backtick functionality to enable or
disable parts of the configuration from either a file or environment variable.

Example:

Let's say we want to conditionally load a module. Environment variable
``LOAD_IMPTCP`` will be either unset or ``off`` .
Then we can use this config construct:

.. code-block:: none
   :emphasize-lines: 2

    module(load="imptcp"
        config.enabled=`echo $LOAD_IMPTCP`)

If the variable is set to ``off``, the module will **not** be loaded.

Objects
-------

action()
^^^^^^^^

The :doc:`action <../configuration/actions>`  object is the primary means of
describing actions to be carried out.

global()
^^^^^^^^

This is used to set global configuration parameters. For details, please
see the :doc:`rsyslog global configuration object <global>`.

input()
^^^^^^^

The :doc:`input <../configuration/input>` object is the primary means of
describing inputs, which are used to gather messages for rsyslog processing.

module()
^^^^^^^^

The module object is used to load plugins.

parser()
^^^^^^^^

The :doc:`parser <../configuration/parser>` object is used to define
custom parser objects.

ratelimit()
^^^^^^^^^^^

The :doc:`ratelimit </rainerscript/ratelimit>` object provides reusable
rate-limiting configurations that can be referenced via
``ratelimit.name`` from inputs and actions.

timezone()
^^^^^^^^^^

The :doc:`timezone <../configuration/timezone>` object is used to define
timezone settings.

include()
^^^^^^^^^

The :doc:`include <include>`  object is use to include configuration snippets
stored elsewhere into the configuration.
