doc/source/configuration/templates.rst, before:

.. _ref-templates:

Templates
=========

.. index::
   single: templates; overview
   single: schema mapping; templates
   single: data pipeline; templates

.. meta::
   :keywords: rsyslog, templates, list, subtree, string, plugin, schema mapping, data pipeline, jsonf, outname, ECS, mmjsonparse, mmleefparse, omelasticsearch, omfile

.. summary-start

Templates define how rsyslog transforms data before output.
They map parsed fields into schemas, format records, and generate dynamic destinations.

.. summary-end


Overview
--------

Templates are a central concept in rsyslog. They sit at the point where **parsed
messages are transformed into their final structure**. This includes:

- **Schema mapping in pipelines** — normalize or rename parsed fields
  into a structured schema (e.g., ECS JSON).
- **Output generation** — create custom message formats or dynamic filenames.
- **Textual transport formats** — add headers when targeting syslog or other
  line-based transports.

Every output in rsyslog, from files to Elasticsearch to remote syslog,
relies on templates. If no explicit template is bound, rsyslog uses built-in
defaults compatible with classic syslog.


Message pipeline integration
----------------------------

Templates appear between **parsing** and **actions**. They define what data
is sent forward:

.. mermaid::

   flowchart TD
      A["Input<br>(imudp, imtcp, imkafka)"]
      B["Parser (mmjsonparse,<br>mmleefparse)"]
      C["Template<br>list (mapping)"]
      D["Action<br>(omfile, omelasticsearch)"]
      A --> B --> C --> D

   %% Alternative when a prepared tree exists:
      E["Prepared tree<br>($!ecs)"] --> F["Template<br>subtree"] --> D
      A --> E
      B --> E


Choosing a template type
------------------------

- Use :ref:`ref-templates-type-list` to map fields one by one
  (rename keys, add or drop fields, inject constants) and build JSON safely
  with ``jsonf``.
- Use :ref:`ref-templates-type-subtree` to serialize a prepared
  JSON tree (for example, after :ref:`ref-mmjsonparse` or
  :ref:`ref-mmleefparse` populated ``$!ecs``).
- Use :ref:`ref-templates-type-string` for simple text records
  (legacy syslog lines, CSV, or other plain-text formats).
- Use :ref:`ref-templates-type-plugin` for special encodings
  provided by modules.


Schema mapping with JSONF
-------------------------

Modern pipelines should prefer structured JSON. The recommended method is:

- Enable JSON-safe encoding with ``option.jsonf="on``.
- For each field, use
  :ref:`property() <ref-templates-statement-property>` or
  :ref:`constant() <ref-templates-statement-constant>` with ``format="jsonf"``.
- For pre-normalized data, serialize a complete subtree such as ``$!ecs``
  with a :ref:`subtree template <ref-templates-type-subtree>`.

This ensures correct escaping and avoids handcrafted JSON concatenation.

Detailed examples are provided in the template type pages.


Templates for textual transports
--------------------------------

When the target transport expects **textual records** (for example,
classic syslog receivers, line-based file formats, or CSV),
the template must include a transport header. This is required so
receivers can parse message boundaries and metadata.

Typical cases:

- **Syslog protocols (RFC5424, RFC3164, protocol-23 draft)**
  Require a syslog header (timestamp, hostname, tag).
- **Text file formats**
  Such as ``RSYSLOG_FileFormat`` or ``RSYSLOG_TraditionalFileFormat``,
  which prepend headers before the message body.
- **Custom plain-text records**
  Where a template explicitly builds a line with fields separated by
  spaces, commas, or tabs.

Predefined reserved templates like ``RSYSLOG_ForwardFormat`` or
``RSYSLOG_SyslogProtocol23Format`` exist for these purposes.

If your output is a **structured JSON pipeline** (e.g. to Elasticsearch
or a file), you do not need to add any textual header.


.. _templates.template-object:

The ``template()`` object
-------------------------

Templates are defined with the ``template()`` object, a static construct
processed when rsyslog reads the configuration. Basic syntax:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   template(name="..." type="...")

List templates additionally support a block form:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   template(name="..." type="list" option.jsonf="on") {
     property(outname="field" name="msg" format="jsonf")
     constant(outname="@version" value="1" format="jsonf")
   }

See the type-specific subpages for details.


.. _templates.types:

Template types
--------------

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20 80

   * - Topic
     - Summary
   * - :ref:`ref-templates-type-list`
     - .. include:: ../reference/templates/templates-type-list.rst
        :start-after: .. summary-start
        :end-before: .. summary-end

   * - :ref:`ref-templates-type-subtree`
     - .. include:: ../reference/templates/templates-type-subtree.rst
        :start-after: .. summary-start
        :end-before: .. summary-end
   * - :ref:`ref-templates-type-string`
     - .. include:: ../reference/templates/templates-type-string.rst
        :start-after: .. summary-start
        :end-before: .. summary-end
   * - :ref:`ref-templates-type-plugin`
     - .. include:: ../reference/templates/templates-type-plugin.rst
        :start-after: .. summary-start
        :end-before: .. summary-end


.. _templates.statements:

Template statements
-------------------

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20 80

   * - Topic
     - Summary
   * - :ref:`ref-templates-statement-constant`
     - .. include:: ../reference/templates/templates-statement-constant.rst
        :start-after: .. summary-start
        :end-before: .. summary-end
   * - :ref:`ref-templates-statement-property`
     - .. include:: ../reference/templates/templates-statement-property.rst
        :start-after: .. summary-start
        :end-before: .. summary-end


.. _templates.additional:

Additional topics
-----------------

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20 80

   * - Topic
     - Summary
   * - :ref:`ref-templates-options`
     - .. include:: ../reference/templates/templates-options.rst
        :start-after: .. summary-start
        :end-before: .. summary-end
   * - :ref:`ref-templates-examples`
     - .. include:: ../reference/templates/templates-examples.rst
        :start-after: .. summary-start
        :end-before: .. summary-end
   * - :ref:`ref-templates-reserved-names`
     - .. include:: ../reference/templates/templates-reserved-names.rst
        :start-after: .. summary-start
        :end-before: .. summary-end
   * - :ref:`ref-templates-legacy`
     - .. include:: ../reference/templates/templates-legacy.rst
        :start-after: .. summary-start
        :end-before: .. summary-end


.. _templates.reserved-table:

Reserved template names overview
--------------------------------

These names provide predefined formats mainly for **compatibility**.
For modern JSON pipelines, prefer custom list or subtree templates.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 40 60

   * - Name
     - Purpose
   * - RSYSLOG_TraditionalFileFormat
     - Old style log file format
   * - RSYSLOG_FileFormat
     - Modern logfile format with high-precision timestamps
   * - RSYSLOG_TraditionalForwardFormat
     - Traditional forwarding with low-precision timestamps
   * - RSYSLOG_SysklogdFileFormat
     - Sysklogd compatible format
   * - RSYSLOG_ForwardFormat
     - High-precision forwarding format
   * - RSYSLOG_SyslogProtocol23Format
     - Format from IETF draft syslog-protocol-23
   * - RSYSLOG_DebugFormat
     - Troubleshooting format listing all properties
   * - RSYSLOG_WallFmt
     - Host and time followed by tag and message
   * - RSYSLOG_StdUsrMsgFmt
     - Syslogtag followed by the message
   * - RSYSLOG_StdDBFmt
     - Insert command for MariaDB/MySQL
   * - RSYSLOG_StdPgSQLFmt
     - Insert command for PostgreSQL
   * - RSYSLOG_spoofadr
     - Sender IP address only
   * - RSYSLOG_StdJSONFmt
     - JSON structure of message properties


Legacy ``$template`` statement
------------------------------

For historical configurations, the legacy ``$template`` syntax is still
recognized. See :ref:`ref-templates-legacy` for details.


See also
--------

- `How to bind a template <https://www.rsyslog.com/how-to-bind-a-template/>`_
- `Adding the BOM to a message <https://www.rsyslog.com/adding-the-bom-to-a-message/>`_
- `How to separate log files by host name of the sending device <https://www.rsyslog.com/article60/>`_


.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   ../reference/templates/templates-type-list
   ../reference/templates/templates-type-subtree
   ../reference/templates/templates-type-string
   ../reference/templates/templates-type-plugin
   ../reference/templates/templates-statement-constant
   ../reference/templates/templates-statement-property
   ../reference/templates/templates-options
   ../reference/templates/templates-examples
   ../reference/templates/templates-reserved-names
   ../reference/templates/templates-legacy

Commit message:

template: add jsonftree option for nested jsonf output
We want easy nested JSON to match common schemas (e.g., Elastic ECS)
without external processors. This introduces an opt-in mode so existing
jsonf users keep exact behavior while enabling structured output when
requested.

Impact: No change unless option.jsonftree is enabled. With jsonftree,
dotted outnames render as nested objects; empty containers are skipped.
On name collisions (object vs value), we fall back to flat rendering.

Before: jsonf always emitted flat name/value pairs, even for dotted
outnames. After: jsonf remains flat by default; enabling jsonftree makes
"host.hostname" and "host.ip" render as {"host":{"hostname":...,"ip":...}}.

Technically, we add option.jsonftree to templates. When set, we lazily
build a per-template JSON tree (tplJsonNode) from dotted segments and
render it in one pass, reusing existing jsonf formatting for leaves.
The tree state is tracked on the template and freed on template delete.
Config parsing enforces mutual exclusivity among sql, stdsql, json,
jsonf, and jsonftree. Constants record bJSONf to reuse serialized
fragments. Tests cover nested output and pure-json cases using
option.jsonftree.

doc/source/configuration/templates.rst, after:

.. _ref-templates:

Templates
=========

.. index::
   single: templates; overview
   single: schema mapping; templates
   single: data pipeline; templates

.. meta::
   :keywords: rsyslog, templates, list, subtree, string, plugin, schema mapping, data pipeline, jsonf, outname, ECS, mmjsonparse, mmleefparse, omelasticsearch, omfile

.. summary-start

Templates define how rsyslog transforms data before output.
They map parsed fields into schemas, format records, and generate dynamic destinations.

.. summary-end


Overview
--------

Templates are a central concept in rsyslog. They sit at the point where **parsed
messages are transformed into their final structure**. This includes:

- **Schema mapping in pipelines** — normalize or rename parsed fields
  into a structured schema (e.g., ECS JSON).
- **Output generation** — create custom message formats or dynamic filenames.
- **Textual transport formats** — add headers when targeting syslog or other
  line-based transports.

Every output in rsyslog, from files to Elasticsearch to remote syslog,
relies on templates. If no explicit template is bound, rsyslog uses built-in
defaults compatible with classic syslog.


Message pipeline integration
----------------------------

Templates appear between **parsing** and **actions**. They define what data
is sent forward:

.. mermaid::

   flowchart TD
      A["Input<br>(imudp, imtcp, imkafka)"]
      B["Parser (mmjsonparse,<br>mmleefparse)"]
      C["Template<br>list (mapping)"]
      D["Action<br>(omfile, omelasticsearch)"]
      A --> B --> C --> D

   %% Alternative when a prepared tree exists:
      E["Prepared tree<br>($!ecs)"] --> F["Template<br>subtree"] --> D
      A --> E
      B --> E


Choosing a template type
------------------------

- Use :ref:`ref-templates-type-list` to map fields one by one
  (rename keys, add or drop fields, inject constants) and build JSON safely
  with ``jsonf`` or ``jsonftree``.
- Use :ref:`ref-templates-type-subtree` to serialize a prepared
  JSON tree (for example, after :ref:`ref-mmjsonparse` or
  :ref:`ref-mmleefparse` populated ``$!ecs``).
- Use :ref:`ref-templates-type-string` for simple text records
  (legacy syslog lines, CSV, or other plain-text formats).
- Use :ref:`ref-templates-type-plugin` for special encodings
  provided by modules.


Schema mapping with JSONF
-------------------------

Modern pipelines should prefer structured JSON. The recommended method is:

- Enable JSON-safe encoding with ``option.jsonf="on"``.  Use
  ``option.jsonftree="on"`` instead when you want dotted ``outname``
  segments to become nested JSON objects automatically.
- For each field, use
  :ref:`property() <ref-templates-statement-property>` or
  :ref:`constant() <ref-templates-statement-constant>` with ``format="jsonf"``.
- For pre-normalized data, serialize a complete subtree such as ``$!ecs``
  with a :ref:`subtree template <ref-templates-type-subtree>`.

This ensures correct escaping and avoids handcrafted JSON concatenation.

Detailed examples are provided in the template type pages.


Templates for textual transports
--------------------------------

When the target transport expects **textual records** (for example,
classic syslog receivers, line-based file formats, or CSV),
the template must include a transport header. This is required so
receivers can parse message boundaries and metadata.

Typical cases:

- **Syslog protocols (RFC5424, RFC3164, protocol-23 draft)**
  Require a syslog header (timestamp, hostname, tag).
- **Text file formats**
  Such as ``RSYSLOG_FileFormat`` or ``RSYSLOG_TraditionalFileFormat``,
  which prepend headers before the message body.
- **Custom plain-text records**
  Where a template explicitly builds a line with fields separated by
  spaces, commas, or tabs.

Predefined reserved templates like ``RSYSLOG_ForwardFormat`` or
``RSYSLOG_SyslogProtocol23Format`` exist for these purposes.

If your output is a **structured JSON pipeline** (e.g. to Elasticsearch
or a file), you do not need to add any textual header.


.. _templates.template-object:

The ``template()`` object
-------------------------

Templates are defined with the ``template()`` object, a static construct
processed when rsyslog reads the configuration. Basic syntax:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   template(name="..." type="...")

List templates additionally support a block form:

.. code-block:: rsyslog

   template(name="..." type="list" option.jsonftree="on") {
     property(outname="field" name="msg" format="jsonf")
     constant(outname="@version" value="1" format="jsonf")
   }

See the type-specific subpages for details.


.. _templates.types:

Template types
--------------

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20 80

   * - Topic
     - Summary
   * - :ref:`ref-templates-type-list`
     - .. include:: ../reference/templates/templates-type-list.rst
        :start-after: .. summary-start
        :end-before: .. summary-end

   * - :ref:`ref-templates-type-subtree`
     - .. include:: ../reference/templates/templates-type-subtree.rst
        :start-after: .. summary-start
        :end-before: .. summary-end
   * - :ref:`ref-templates-type-string`
     - .. include:: ../reference/templates/templates-type-string.rst
        :start-after: .. summary-start
        :end-before: .. summary-end
   * - :ref:`ref-templates-type-plugin`
     - .. include:: ../reference/templates/templates-type-plugin.rst
        :start-after: .. summary-start
        :end-before: .. summary-end


.. _templates.statements:

Template statements
-------------------

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20 80

   * - Topic
     - Summary
   * - :ref:`ref-templates-statement-constant`
     - .. include:: ../reference/templates/templates-statement-constant.rst
        :start-after: .. summary-start
        :end-before: .. summary-end
   * - :ref:`ref-templates-statement-property`
     - .. include:: ../reference/templates/templates-statement-property.rst
        :start-after: .. summary-start
        :end-before: .. summary-end


.. _templates.additional:

Additional topics
-----------------

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20 80

   * - Topic
     - Summary
   * - :ref:`ref-templates-options`
     - .. include:: ../reference/templates/templates-options.rst
        :start-after: .. summary-start
        :end-before: .. summary-end
   * - :ref:`ref-templates-examples`
     - .. include:: ../reference/templates/templates-examples.rst
        :start-after: .. summary-start
        :end-before: .. summary-end
   * - :ref:`ref-templates-reserved-names`
     - .. include:: ../reference/templates/templates-reserved-names.rst
        :start-after: .. summary-start
        :end-before: .. summary-end
   * - :ref:`ref-templates-legacy`
     - .. include:: ../reference/templates/templates-legacy.rst
        :start-after: .. summary-start
        :end-before: .. summary-end


.. _templates.reserved-table:

Reserved template names overview
--------------------------------

These names provide predefined formats mainly for **compatibility**.
For modern JSON pipelines, prefer custom list or subtree templates.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 40 60

   * - Name
     - Purpose
   * - RSYSLOG_TraditionalFileFormat
     - Old style log file format
   * - RSYSLOG_FileFormat
     - Modern logfile format with high-precision timestamps
   * - RSYSLOG_TraditionalForwardFormat
     - Traditional forwarding with low-precision timestamps
   * - RSYSLOG_SysklogdFileFormat
     - Sysklogd compatible format
   * - RSYSLOG_ForwardFormat
     - High-precision forwarding format
   * - RSYSLOG_SyslogProtocol23Format
     - Format from IETF draft syslog-protocol-23
   * - RSYSLOG_DebugFormat
     - Troubleshooting format listing all properties
   * - RSYSLOG_WallFmt
     - Host and time followed by tag and message
   * - RSYSLOG_StdUsrMsgFmt
     - Syslogtag followed by the message
   * - RSYSLOG_StdDBFmt
     - Insert command for MariaDB/MySQL
   * - RSYSLOG_StdPgSQLFmt
     - Insert command for PostgreSQL
   * - RSYSLOG_spoofadr
     - Sender IP address only
   * - RSYSLOG_StdJSONFmt
     - JSON structure of message properties


Legacy ``$template`` statement
------------------------------

For historical configurations, the legacy ``$template`` syntax is still
recognized. See :ref:`ref-templates-legacy` for details.


See also
--------

- `How to bind a template <https://www.rsyslog.com/how-to-bind-a-template/>`_
- `Adding the BOM to a message <https://www.rsyslog.com/adding-the-bom-to-a-message/>`_
- `How to separate log files by host name of the sending device <https://www.rsyslog.com/article60/>`_


.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   ../reference/templates/templates-type-list
   ../reference/templates/templates-type-subtree
   ../reference/templates/templates-type-string
   ../reference/templates/templates-type-plugin
   ../reference/templates/templates-statement-constant
   ../reference/templates/templates-statement-property
   ../reference/templates/templates-options
   ../reference/templates/templates-examples
   ../reference/templates/templates-reserved-names
   ../reference/templates/templates-legacy
