doc/source/containers/collector.rst, before:

.. _containers-user-collector:
.. _container.image.rsyslog-collector:

rsyslog/rsyslog-collector
=========================

.. index::
   pair: containers; rsyslog/rsyslog-collector
   pair: Docker images; rsyslog/rsyslog-collector

Overview
--------

The ``rsyslog-collector`` container image extends the standard
:doc:`standard` base with modules for **centralised log aggregation**.
It is preconfigured to receive logs via UDP, TCP, and optionally RELP, and can
forward them to storage backends or files.

This image is the recommended starting point for building a log
collector or relay service.

.. note::

   - **UDP (514/udp)** and **TCP (514/tcp)** are enabled by default.  
   - **RELP (2514/tcp)** is available but **disabled by default**.  
   - External deployments usually map RELP to **20514/tcp** to avoid conflicts
     with the standard syslog port.

Environment Variables
---------------------

Runtime behaviour can be tuned with the following variables:

.. _containers-user-collector-enable_udp:
.. envvar:: ENABLE_UDP

   Enable UDP syslog reception. Default ``on``.

.. _containers-user-collector-enable_tcp:
.. envvar:: ENABLE_TCP

   Enable TCP syslog reception. Default ``on``.

.. _containers-user-collector-enable_relp:
.. envvar:: ENABLE_RELP

   Enable RELP syslog reception (internal port ``2514/tcp``). Default ``off``.

.. _containers-user-collector-write_all_file:
.. envvar:: WRITE_ALL_FILE

   Write all messages to ``/var/log/all.log``. Default ``on``.

.. _containers-user-collector-write_json_file:
.. envvar:: WRITE_JSON_FILE

   Write JSON formatted messages to ``/var/log/all-json.log``. Default ``on``.

.. _containers-user-collector-rsyslog_hostname:
.. envvar:: RSYSLOG_HOSTNAME
   :noindex:

   Hostname used inside rsyslog. Defaults to the value of ``/etc/hostname`` when unset.

.. _containers-user-collector-permit_unclean_start:
.. envvar:: PERMIT_UNCLEAN_START
   :noindex:

   Skip configuration validation when set. By default ``rsyslogd -N1`` validates the configuration.

.. _containers-user-collector-rsyslog_role:
.. envvar:: RSYSLOG_ROLE
   :noindex:

   Role name consumed by the entrypoint. Defaults to ``collector``.

Port Mapping Reference
----------------------

+-----------+----------------+------------------+-----------------+
| Protocol  | Container Port | Example External | Controlled by   |
+===========+================+==================+=================+
| UDP Syslog | 514/udp       | 514/udp          | ``ENABLE_UDP``  |
+-----------+----------------+------------------+-----------------+
| TCP Syslog | 514/tcp       | 514/tcp          | ``ENABLE_TCP``  |
+-----------+----------------+------------------+-----------------+
| RELP       | 2514/tcp      | 20514/tcp        | ``ENABLE_RELP`` |
+-----------+----------------+------------------+-----------------+

Example Deployment (docker-compose)
-----------------------------------

A minimal configuration using `docker compose`:

.. code-block:: yaml

   version: "3.9"

   services:
     rsyslog-collector:
       image: rsyslog/rsyslog-collector:latest
       environment:
         ENABLE_UDP: "on"
         ENABLE_TCP: "on"
         ENABLE_RELP: "on"
       ports:
         - "514:514/udp"    # Syslog UDP
         - "514:514/tcp"    # Syslog TCP
         - "20514:2514/tcp" # RELP (external 20514 → internal 2514)
       volumes:
         - ./data:/var/log   # Optional: collect logs on host

Verifying the Container
-----------------------

To confirm that the collector is listening on the expected ports:

.. code-block:: bash

   docker compose exec rsyslog-collector ss -tuln

This should show listeners on ``514/udp``, ``514/tcp``, and ``2514/tcp`` when RELP is enabled.

.. seealso::

   - `GitHub Discussions <https://github.com/rsyslog/rsyslog/discussions>`_ for community support.
   - `rsyslog Assistant AI <https://rsyslog.ai>`_ for self-help and examples.

Commit message:

feat(deploy): add ROSI Collector centralized log collection stack
Add production-ready Docker Compose stack for centralized log collection
and monitoring, migrated from rsyslog-do-infra/central-intern.

ROSI (RSyslog Open System for Information) Collector provides:
- rsyslog log receiver with omhttp output to Loki
- Grafana Loki for log storage (30-day retention)
- Grafana with 5 pre-built dashboards
- Prometheus for metrics collection
- Traefik reverse proxy with automatic Let's Encrypt TLS
- TLS/mTLS syslog reception on port 6514 (RFC 5425)

TLS support features:
- Optional TLS profile activated via: docker compose --profile tls up -d
- Environment variable configuration (ENABLE_TLS, TLS_CA_FILE, etc.)
- Auth modes: anon, x509/certvalid, x509/name
- generate-ca.sh: Create CA and server certificates
- generate-client-cert.sh: Generate client certs with secure one-time
  download packages, migration handling, and syslog user ownership
- Automatic UFW firewall configuration for port 6514

Management scripts installed to /usr/local/bin:
- rosi-monitor: Stack health monitoring and debugging
- rosi-generate-ca: Generate CA and server TLS certificates
- rosi-generate-client-cert: Generate client TLS certificates
- prometheus-target: Manage node exporter scrape targets

Configuration persistence via XDG-compliant config files:
- System: /etc/rsyslog/rosi-collector.conf
- User: ~/.config/rsyslog/rosi-collector.conf

Files added:
- deploy/docker-compose/rosi-collector/ (31 files)
- doc/source/deployments/rosi_collector/ (7 RST pages)
- doc/source/deployments/index.rst
- doc/source/_static/rosi-architecture.svg
- doc/source/_static/*.png (dashboard screenshots)

Updated doc/source/index.rst to include deployments in toctree.

closes: https://github.com/rsyslog/rsyslog/issues/6323

doc/source/containers/collector.rst, after:

.. _containers-user-collector:
.. _container.image.rsyslog-collector:

rsyslog/rsyslog-collector
=========================

.. index::
   pair: containers; rsyslog/rsyslog-collector
   pair: Docker images; rsyslog/rsyslog-collector

Overview
--------

The ``rsyslog-collector`` container image extends the standard
:doc:`standard` base with modules for **centralised log aggregation**.
It is preconfigured to receive logs via UDP, TCP, and optionally RELP, and can
forward them to storage backends or files.

This image is the recommended starting point for building a log
collector or relay service.

.. note::

   - **UDP (514/udp)** and **TCP (514/tcp)** are enabled by default.  
   - **RELP (2514/tcp)** is available but **disabled by default**.  
   - External deployments usually map RELP to **20514/tcp** to avoid conflicts
     with the standard syslog port.

Environment Variables
---------------------

Runtime behaviour can be tuned with the following variables:

.. _containers-user-collector-enable_udp:
.. envvar:: ENABLE_UDP

   Enable UDP syslog reception. Default ``on``.

.. _containers-user-collector-enable_tcp:
.. envvar:: ENABLE_TCP

   Enable TCP syslog reception. Default ``on``.

.. _containers-user-collector-enable_relp:
.. envvar:: ENABLE_RELP

   Enable RELP syslog reception (internal port ``2514/tcp``). Default ``off``.

.. _containers-user-collector-write_all_file:
.. envvar:: WRITE_ALL_FILE

   Write all messages to ``/var/log/all.log``. Default ``on``.

.. _containers-user-collector-write_json_file:
.. envvar:: WRITE_JSON_FILE

   Write JSON formatted messages to ``/var/log/all-json.log``. Default ``on``.

.. _containers-user-collector-rsyslog_hostname:
.. envvar:: RSYSLOG_HOSTNAME
   :noindex:

   Hostname used inside rsyslog. Defaults to the value of ``/etc/hostname`` when unset.

.. _containers-user-collector-permit_unclean_start:
.. envvar:: PERMIT_UNCLEAN_START
   :noindex:

   Skip configuration validation when set. By default ``rsyslogd -N1`` validates the configuration.

.. _containers-user-collector-rsyslog_role:
.. envvar:: RSYSLOG_ROLE
   :noindex:

   Role name consumed by the entrypoint. Defaults to ``collector``.

Port Mapping Reference
----------------------

+-----------+----------------+------------------+-----------------+
| Protocol  | Container Port | Example External | Controlled by   |
+===========+================+==================+=================+
| UDP Syslog | 514/udp       | 514/udp          | ``ENABLE_UDP``  |
+-----------+----------------+------------------+-----------------+
| TCP Syslog | 514/tcp       | 514/tcp          | ``ENABLE_TCP``  |
+-----------+----------------+------------------+-----------------+
| RELP       | 2514/tcp      | 20514/tcp        | ``ENABLE_RELP`` |
+-----------+----------------+------------------+-----------------+

Example Deployment (docker-compose)
-----------------------------------

A minimal configuration using `docker compose`:

.. code-block:: yaml

   version: "3.9"

   services:
     rsyslog-collector:
       image: rsyslog/rsyslog-collector:latest
       environment:
         ENABLE_UDP: "on"
         ENABLE_TCP: "on"
         ENABLE_RELP: "on"
       ports:
         - "514:514/udp"    # Syslog UDP
         - "514:514/tcp"    # Syslog TCP
         - "20514:2514/tcp" # RELP (external 20514 → internal 2514)
       volumes:
         - ./data:/var/log   # Optional: collect logs on host

Verifying the Container
-----------------------

To confirm that the collector is listening on the expected ports:

.. code-block:: bash

   docker compose exec rsyslog-collector ss -tuln

This should show listeners on ``514/udp``, ``514/tcp``, and ``2514/tcp`` when RELP is enabled.

Production Deployments
----------------------

For a complete production deployment with dashboards, alerting, and log storage,
see :doc:`../deployments/rosi_collector/index`. ROSI Collector builds on this
container image to provide Grafana visualization, Loki log storage, and
Prometheus metrics collection.

.. seealso::

   - :doc:`../deployments/rosi_collector/index` - Complete log collection stack
   - `GitHub Discussions <https://github.com/rsyslog/rsyslog/discussions>`_ for community support.
   - `rsyslog Assistant AI <https://rsyslog.ai>`_ for self-help and examples.
