doc/source/reference/templates/templates-statement-constant.rst, before:

.. _ref-templates-statement-constant:

Constant statement
==================

.. summary-start

Outputs literal text. Supports escape sequences and optional JSON field
formatting when an outname and format are specified.
.. summary-end

This statement specifies constant text. It is primarily intended for
text-based output so constant fragments, such as newlines, can be
included. Example from the testbench:

::

    template(name="outfmt" type="list") {
        property(name="$!usr!msgnum")
        constant(value="\n")
    }

The following escape sequences are recognized inside the constant text:

- ``\\`` – single backslash
- ``\n`` – LF
- ``\ooo`` – three octal digits representing a character (``\101`` is
  ``"A"``). Exactly three digits must be given.
- ``\xhh`` – two hexadecimal digits representing a character
  (``\x41`` is ``"A"``). Exactly two digits must be given.

If an unsupported character follows a backslash, behavior is
unpredictable.

When creating structured outputs, constant text without an ``outname``
parameter is ignored. To include constant data in the name/value tree,
provide ``outname`` as shown:

.. code-block:: none

    template(name="outfmt" type="list") {
        property(name="$!usr!msgnum")
        constant(value="\n" outname="IWantThisInMyDB")
    }

To generate a constant JSON field the ``format`` parameter can be used:

.. code-block:: none

   template(name="outfmt" type="list" option.jsonf="on") {
             property(outname="message" name="msg" format="jsonf")
             constant(outname="@version" value="1" format="jsonf")
   }

Here the constant statement generates ``"@version":"1"``. Both ``value``
and ``format`` must be specified.

Parameters
----------

- ``value`` – constant value to emit
- ``outname`` – output field name for structured outputs
- ``format`` – empty or ``jsonf``

Commit message:

template: add jsonftree option for nested jsonf output
We want easy nested JSON to match common schemas (e.g., Elastic ECS)
without external processors. This introduces an opt-in mode so existing
jsonf users keep exact behavior while enabling structured output when
requested.

Impact: No change unless option.jsonftree is enabled. With jsonftree,
dotted outnames render as nested objects; empty containers are skipped.
On name collisions (object vs value), we fall back to flat rendering.

Before: jsonf always emitted flat name/value pairs, even for dotted
outnames. After: jsonf remains flat by default; enabling jsonftree makes
"host.hostname" and "host.ip" render as {"host":{"hostname":...,"ip":...}}.

Technically, we add option.jsonftree to templates. When set, we lazily
build a per-template JSON tree (tplJsonNode) from dotted segments and
render it in one pass, reusing existing jsonf formatting for leaves.
The tree state is tracked on the template and freed on template delete.
Config parsing enforces mutual exclusivity among sql, stdsql, json,
jsonf, and jsonftree. Constants record bJSONf to reuse serialized
fragments. Tests cover nested output and pure-json cases using
option.jsonftree.

doc/source/reference/templates/templates-statement-constant.rst, after:

.. _ref-templates-statement-constant:

Constant statement
==================

.. summary-start

Outputs literal text. Supports escape sequences and optional JSON field
formatting when an outname and format are specified.
.. summary-end

This statement specifies constant text. It is primarily intended for
text-based output so constant fragments, such as newlines, can be
included. Example from the testbench:

::

    template(name="outfmt" type="list") {
        property(name="$!usr!msgnum")
        constant(value="\n")
    }

The following escape sequences are recognized inside the constant text:

- ``\\`` – single backslash
- ``\n`` – LF
- ``\ooo`` – three octal digits representing a character (``\101`` is
  ``"A"``). Exactly three digits must be given.
- ``\xhh`` – two hexadecimal digits representing a character
  (``\x41`` is ``"A"``). Exactly two digits must be given.

If an unsupported character follows a backslash, behavior is
unpredictable.

When creating structured outputs, constant text without an ``outname``
parameter is ignored. To include constant data in the name/value tree,
provide ``outname`` as shown:

.. code-block:: none

    template(name="outfmt" type="list") {
        property(name="$!usr!msgnum")
        constant(value="\n" outname="IWantThisInMyDB")
    }

To generate a constant JSON field the ``format`` parameter can be used:

.. code-block:: none

   template(name="outfmt" type="list" option.jsonf="on") {
             property(outname="message" name="msg" format="jsonf")
             constant(outname="@version" value="1" format="jsonf")
   }

Here the constant statement generates ``"@version":"1"``. Both ``value``
and ``format`` must be specified.

When you want dotted ``outname`` values to be emitted as nested objects,
enable ``option.jsonftree="on"`` on the template instead of ``option.jsonf``.

Parameters
----------

- ``value`` – constant value to emit
- ``outname`` – output field name for structured outputs
- ``format`` – empty or ``jsonf``
