source/configuration/modules/imjournal.rst, before:

***************************************
imjournal: Systemd Journal Input Module
***************************************

===========================  ===========================================================================
**Module Name:**             **imjournal**
**Author:**                  Jiri Vymazal <jvymazal@redhat.com> (This module is **not** project-supported)
**Available since:**         7.3.11
===========================  ===========================================================================


Purpose
=======

Provides the ability to import structured log messages from systemd
journal to syslog.

Note that this module reads the journal database, what is considered a
relatively performance-intense operation. As such, the performance of a
configuration utilizing this module may be notably slower than when
using `imuxsock <imuxsock.html>`_. The journal provides imuxsock with a
copy of all "classical" syslog messages, however, it does not provide
structured data. Only if that structured data is needed, imjournal must be used.
Otherwise, imjournal may simply be replaced by imuxsock, and we highly
suggest doing so.

We suggest to check out our short presentation on `rsyslog journal
integration <http://youtu.be/GTS7EuSdFKE>`_ to learn more details of
anticipated use cases.

**Warning:** Some versions of systemd journal have problems with
database corruption, which leads to the journal to return the same data
endlessly in a tight loop. This results in massive message duplication
inside rsyslog probably resulting in a denial-of-service when the system
resources get exhausted. This can be somewhat mitigated by using proper
rate-limiters, but even then there are spikes of old data which are
endlessly repeated. By default, ratelimiting is activated and permits to
process 20,000 messages within 10 minutes, what should be well enough
for most use cases. If insufficient, use the parameters described below
to adjust the permitted volume. **It is strongly recommended to use this
plugin only if there is hard need to do so.**


Notable Features
================

- :ref:`imjournal-statistic-counter`


Configuration Parameters
========================

.. note::

   Parameter names are case-insensitive.


Module Parameters
=================


PersistStateInterval
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "integer", "10", "no", "``$imjournalPersistStateInterval``"

This is a global setting. It specifies how often should the journal
state be persisted. The persists happens after each *number-of-messages*.
This option is useful for rsyslog to start reading from the last journal
message it read.

FileCreateMode
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "octalNumber", "0644", "no", "none"

Set the access permissions for the state file. The value given must
always be a 4-digit octal number, with the initial digit being zero.
Please note that the actual permission depend on rsyslogd's process
umask. If in doubt, use "$umask 0000" right at the beginning of the
configuration file to remove any restrictions. The state file's only
consumer is rsyslog, so it's recommended to adjust the value according
to that.


StateFile
^^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "word", "none", "no", "``$imjournalStateFile``"

This is a global setting. It specifies where the state file for
persisting journal state is located. If a full path name is given
(starting with "/"), that path is used. Otherwise the given name
is created inside the working directory.


Ratelimit.Interval
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "integer", "600", "no", "``$imjournalRatelimitInterval``"

Specifies the interval in seconds onto which rate-limiting is to be
applied. If more than ratelimit.burst messages are read during that
interval, further messages up to the end of the interval are
discarded. The number of messages discarded is emitted at the end of
the interval (if there were any discards).

**Setting this value to 0 turns off ratelimiting.**

Note that it is *not recommended to turn off ratelimiting*,
except that you know for
sure journal database entries will never be corrupted. Without
ratelimiting, a corrupted systemd journal database may cause a kind
of denial of service We are stressing this point as multiple users
have reported us such problems with the journal database - in June
of 2013 and occasionally also after this time (up until the time of
this writing in January 2019).


Ratelimit.Burst
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "integer", "20000", "no", "``$imjournalRatelimitBurst``"

Specifies the maximum number of messages that can be emitted within
the ratelimit.interval interval. For further information, see
description there.


IgnorePreviousMessages
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "binary", "off", "no", "``$ImjournalIgnorePreviousMessages``"

This option specifies whether imjournal should ignore messages
currently in journal and read only new messages. This option is only
used when there is no StateFile to avoid message loss.


DefaultSeverity
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "severity", "5", "no", "``$ImjournalDefaultSeverity``"

Some messages coming from journald don't have the SYSLOG_PRIORITY
field. These are typically the messages logged through journald's
native API. This option specifies the default severity for these
messages. Can be given either as a name or a number. Defaults to 'notice'.


DefaultFacility
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "facility", "LOG_USER", "no", "``$ImjournalDefaultFacility``"

Some messages coming from journald don't have the SYSLOG_FACILITY
field. These are typically the messages logged through journald's
native API. This option specifies the default facility for these
messages. Can be given either as a name or a number. Defaults to 'user'.


UsePidFromSystem
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "binary", "0", "no", "none"

Retrieves the trusted systemd parameter, _PID, instead of the user
systemd parameter, SYSLOG_PID, which is the default.
This option override the "usepid" option.
This is now deprecated. It is better to use usepid="syslog" instead.


UsePid
^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "string", "both", "no", "none"

Sets the PID source from journal.

*syslog*
   *imjournal* retrieves SYSLOG_PID from journal as PID number.

*system*
   *imjournal* retrieves _PID from journal as PID number.

*both*
   *imjournal* trying to retrieve SYSLOG_PID first. When it is not
   available, it is also trying to retrieve _PID. When none of them is available,
   message is parsed without PID number.


IgnoreNonValidStatefile
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "binary", "on", "no", "none"

When a corrupted statefile is read imjournal ignores the statefile and continues
with logging from the beginning of the journal (from its end if IgnorePreviousMessages
is on). After PersistStateInterval or when rsyslog is stopped invalid statefile
is overwritten with a new valid cursor.


WorkAroundJournalBug
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "binary", "on", "no", "none"

.. versionadded:: 8.37.0

**Deprecated.** This option was intended as temporary and has no effect now
(since 8.1910.0). Left for backwards compatibility only.


FSync
^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "binary", "off", "no", "none"

.. versionadded:: 8.1908.0

When there is a hard crash, power loss or similar abrupt end of rsyslog process,
there is a risk of state file not being written to persistent storage or possibly
being corrupted. This then results in imjournal starting reading elsewhere then 
desired and most probably message duplication. To mitigate this problem you can 
turn this option on which will force state file writes to persistent physical 
storage. Please note that fsync calls are costly, so especially with lower 
PersistStateInterval value, this may present considerable performance hit.


Remote
^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "binary", "off", "no", "none"

.. versionadded:: 8.1910.0

When this option is turned on, imjournal will pull not only all local journal
files (default behavior), but also any journal files on machine originating from
remote sources.

.. _imjournal-statistic-counter:

Input Module Parameters
=======================

Parameters specific to the input module.

Main
^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "binary", "off", "no", "none"

.. versionadded:: 8.2312.0

When this option is turned on within the input module, imjournal will run the
target ruleset in the main thread and will be stop taking input if the output
module is not accepting data. If multiple input moduels set `main` to true, only
the first one will be affected. The non `main` rulesets will run in the
background thread and not affected by the output state.



Statistic Counter
=================

This plugin maintains :doc:`statistics <../rsyslog_statistic_counter>` for each listener and for each worker thread. The listener statistic is named "imjournal".

The following properties are maintained for each listener:

-  **read** - total number of message read from journal since startup.

-  **submitted** - total number of messages submitted to main queue after reading from journal for processing
   since startup. All records may not be submitted due to rate-limiting.

-  **discarded** - total number of messages that were read but not submitted to main queue due to rate-limiting.

-  **failed** - total number of failures to read messages from journal.

-  **poll_failed** - total number of journal poll failures.

-  **rotations** - total number of journal file rotations.

-  **recovery_attempts** - total number of recovery attempts by imjournal after unknown errors by closing and
   re-opening journal.

-  **ratelimit_discarded_in_interval** - number of messages discarded due to rate-limiting within configured
   rate-limiting interval.

-  **disk_usage_bytes** - total size of journal obtained from sd_journal_get_usage().

Here is an example output of corresponding imjournal impstat message, which is produced by loading imjournal
with default rate-limit interval and burst and running a docker container with log-driver as journald that
spews lots of logs to stdout:

.. code-block:: none

	Jun 13 15:02:48 app1-1.example.com rsyslogd-pstats: imjournal: origin=imjournal submitted=20000 read=216557
	discarded=196557 failed=0 poll_failed=0 rotations=6 recovery_attempts=0 ratelimit_discarded_in_interval=196557
	disk_usage_bytes=106610688

Although these counters provide insight into imjournal end message submissions to main queue as well as losses due to
rate-limiting or other problems to extract messages from journal, they don't offer full visibility into journal end
issues. While these counters measure journal rotations and disk usage, they do not offer visibility into message
loss due to journal rate-limiting. sd_journal_* API does not provide any visibility into messages that are
discarded by the journal due to rate-limiting. Journald does emit a syslog message when log messages cannot make
it into the journal due to rate-limiting:

.. code-block::	none

	Jun 13 15:50:32 app1-1.example.com systemd-journal[333]: Suppressed 102 messages from /system.slice/docker.service

Such messages can be processed after they are read through imjournal to get a signal for message loss due to journal
end rate-limiting using a dynamic statistics counter for such log lines with a rule like this:

.. code-block:: none

	dyn_stats(name="journal" resettable="off")
	if $programname == 'journal' and $msg contains 'Suppressed' and $msg contains 'messages from' then {
		set $.inc = dyn_inc("journal", "suppressed_count");
	}

Caveats/Known Bugs:
===================

- As stated above, a corrupted systemd journal database can cause major
  problems, depending on what the corruption results in. This is beyond
  the control of the rsyslog team.

- imjournal does not check if messages received actually originated
  from rsyslog itself (via omjournal or other means). Depending on
  configuration, this can also lead to a loop. With imuxsock, this
  problem does not exist.


Build Requirements:
===================

Development headers for systemd, version >= 197.


Example 1
=========

The following example shows pulling structured imjournal messages and
saving them into /var/log/ceelog.

.. code-block:: none

  module(load="imjournal" PersistStateInterval="100"
         StateFile="/path/to/file") #load imjournal module
  module(load="mmjsonparse") #load mmjsonparse module for structured logs

  template(name="CEETemplate" type="string" string="%TIMESTAMP% %HOSTNAME% %syslogtag% @cee: %$!all-json%\n" ) #template for messages

  action(type="mmjsonparse")
  action(type="omfile" file="/var/log/ceelog" template="CEETemplate")


Example 2
=========

The following example is the same as `Example 1`, but with the input module.

.. code-block:: none

  ruleset(name="imjournam-example" queue.type="direct"){
   action(type="mmjsonparse")
   action(type="omfile" file="/var/log/ceelog" template="CEETemplate")
  }

  input(
   type="imjournal"
   ruleset="imjournam-example"
   main="on"
  )

Commit message:

document new imjournal "defaultTag" module parameter
see https://github.com/rsyslog/rsyslog/pull/5286

source/configuration/modules/imjournal.rst, after:

***************************************
imjournal: Systemd Journal Input Module
***************************************

===========================  ===========================================================================
**Module Name:**             **imjournal**
**Author:**                  Jiri Vymazal <jvymazal@redhat.com> (This module is **not** project-supported)
**Available since:**         7.3.11
===========================  ===========================================================================


Purpose
=======

Provides the ability to import structured log messages from systemd
journal to syslog.

Note that this module reads the journal database, what is considered a
relatively performance-intense operation. As such, the performance of a
configuration utilizing this module may be notably slower than when
using `imuxsock <imuxsock.html>`_. The journal provides imuxsock with a
copy of all "classical" syslog messages, however, it does not provide
structured data. Only if that structured data is needed, imjournal must be used.
Otherwise, imjournal may simply be replaced by imuxsock, and we highly
suggest doing so.

We suggest to check out our short presentation on `rsyslog journal
integration <http://youtu.be/GTS7EuSdFKE>`_ to learn more details of
anticipated use cases.

**Warning:** Some versions of systemd journal have problems with
database corruption, which leads to the journal to return the same data
endlessly in a tight loop. This results in massive message duplication
inside rsyslog probably resulting in a denial-of-service when the system
resources get exhausted. This can be somewhat mitigated by using proper
rate-limiters, but even then there are spikes of old data which are
endlessly repeated. By default, ratelimiting is activated and permits to
process 20,000 messages within 10 minutes, what should be well enough
for most use cases. If insufficient, use the parameters described below
to adjust the permitted volume. **It is strongly recommended to use this
plugin only if there is hard need to do so.**


Notable Features
================

- :ref:`imjournal-statistic-counter`


Configuration Parameters
========================

.. note::

   Parameter names are case-insensitive.


Module Parameters
=================


PersistStateInterval
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "integer", "10", "no", "``$imjournalPersistStateInterval``"

This is a global setting. It specifies how often should the journal
state be persisted. The persists happens after each *number-of-messages*.
This option is useful for rsyslog to start reading from the last journal
message it read.

FileCreateMode
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "octalNumber", "0644", "no", "none"

Set the access permissions for the state file. The value given must
always be a 4-digit octal number, with the initial digit being zero.
Please note that the actual permission depend on rsyslogd's process
umask. If in doubt, use "$umask 0000" right at the beginning of the
configuration file to remove any restrictions. The state file's only
consumer is rsyslog, so it's recommended to adjust the value according
to that.


StateFile
^^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "word", "none", "no", "``$imjournalStateFile``"

This is a global setting. It specifies where the state file for
persisting journal state is located. If a full path name is given
(starting with "/"), that path is used. Otherwise the given name
is created inside the working directory.


Ratelimit.Interval
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "integer", "600", "no", "``$imjournalRatelimitInterval``"

Specifies the interval in seconds onto which rate-limiting is to be
applied. If more than ratelimit.burst messages are read during that
interval, further messages up to the end of the interval are
discarded. The number of messages discarded is emitted at the end of
the interval (if there were any discards).

**Setting this value to 0 turns off ratelimiting.**

Note that it is *not recommended to turn off ratelimiting*,
except that you know for
sure journal database entries will never be corrupted. Without
ratelimiting, a corrupted systemd journal database may cause a kind
of denial of service We are stressing this point as multiple users
have reported us such problems with the journal database - in June
of 2013 and occasionally also after this time (up until the time of
this writing in January 2019).


Ratelimit.Burst
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "integer", "20000", "no", "``$imjournalRatelimitBurst``"

Specifies the maximum number of messages that can be emitted within
the ratelimit.interval interval. For further information, see
description there.


IgnorePreviousMessages
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "binary", "off", "no", "``$ImjournalIgnorePreviousMessages``"

This option specifies whether imjournal should ignore messages
currently in journal and read only new messages. This option is only
used when there is no StateFile to avoid message loss.


DefaultSeverity
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "severity", "5", "no", "``$ImjournalDefaultSeverity``"

Some messages coming from journald don't have the SYSLOG_PRIORITY
field. These are typically the messages logged through journald's
native API. This option specifies the default severity for these
messages. Can be given either as a name or a number. Defaults to 'notice'.


DefaultFacility
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "facility", "LOG_USER", "no", "``$ImjournalDefaultFacility``"

Some messages coming from journald don't have the SYSLOG_FACILITY
field. These are typically the messages logged through journald's
native API. This option specifies the default facility for these
messages. Can be given either as a name or a number. Defaults to 'user'.


UsePidFromSystem
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "binary", "0", "no", "none"

Retrieves the trusted systemd parameter, _PID, instead of the user
systemd parameter, SYSLOG_PID, which is the default.
This option override the "usepid" option.
This is now deprecated. It is better to use usepid="syslog" instead.


UsePid
^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "string", "both", "no", "none"

Sets the PID source from journal.

*syslog*
   *imjournal* retrieves SYSLOG_PID from journal as PID number.

*system*
   *imjournal* retrieves _PID from journal as PID number.

*both*
   *imjournal* trying to retrieve SYSLOG_PID first. When it is not
   available, it is also trying to retrieve _PID. When none of them is available,
   message is parsed without PID number.


IgnoreNonValidStatefile
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "binary", "on", "no", "none"

When a corrupted statefile is read imjournal ignores the statefile and continues
with logging from the beginning of the journal (from its end if IgnorePreviousMessages
is on). After PersistStateInterval or when rsyslog is stopped invalid statefile
is overwritten with a new valid cursor.


WorkAroundJournalBug
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "binary", "on", "no", "none"

.. versionadded:: 8.37.0

**Deprecated.** This option was intended as temporary and has no effect now
(since 8.1910.0). Left for backwards compatibility only.


FSync
^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "binary", "off", "no", "none"

.. versionadded:: 8.1908.0

When there is a hard crash, power loss or similar abrupt end of rsyslog process,
there is a risk of state file not being written to persistent storage or possibly
being corrupted. This then results in imjournal starting reading elsewhere then 
desired and most probably message duplication. To mitigate this problem you can 
turn this option on which will force state file writes to persistent physical 
storage. Please note that fsync calls are costly, so especially with lower 
PersistStateInterval value, this may present considerable performance hit.


Remote
^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "binary", "off", "no", "none"

.. versionadded:: 8.1910.0

When this option is turned on, imjournal will pull not only all local journal
files (default behavior), but also any journal files on machine originating from
remote sources.

defaultTag
^^^^^^^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "binary", "off", "no", "none"

.. versionadded:: 8.2312.0

The DefaultTag option specifies the default value for the tag field.
In imjournal, this can happen when one of the following is missing:

* identifier string provided by the application (SYSLOG_IDENTIFIER) or
* name of the process the journal entry originates from (_COMM)

Under normal circumstances, at least one of the previously mentioned fields
is always part of the journal message. But there are some corner cases
where this is not the case. This parameter provides the ability to alter
the content of the tag field.


Input Module Parameters
=======================

Parameters specific to the input module.

Main
^^^^

.. csv-table::
   :header: "type", "default", "mandatory", "|FmtObsoleteName| directive"
   :widths: auto
   :class: parameter-table

   "word", "journal", "no", "none"

.. versionadded:: 8.2312.0

When this option is turned on within the input module, imjournal will run the
target ruleset in the main thread and will be stop taking input if the output
module is not accepting data. If multiple input moduels set `main` to true, only
the first one will be affected. The non `main` rulesets will run in the
background thread and not affected by the output state.



Statistic Counter
=================

.. _imjournal-statistic-counter:

This plugin maintains :doc:`statistics <../rsyslog_statistic_counter>` for each listener and for each worker thread. The listener statistic is named "imjournal".

The following properties are maintained for each listener:

-  **read** - total number of message read from journal since startup.

-  **submitted** - total number of messages submitted to main queue after reading from journal for processing
   since startup. All records may not be submitted due to rate-limiting.

-  **discarded** - total number of messages that were read but not submitted to main queue due to rate-limiting.

-  **failed** - total number of failures to read messages from journal.

-  **poll_failed** - total number of journal poll failures.

-  **rotations** - total number of journal file rotations.

-  **recovery_attempts** - total number of recovery attempts by imjournal after unknown errors by closing and
   re-opening journal.

-  **ratelimit_discarded_in_interval** - number of messages discarded due to rate-limiting within configured
   rate-limiting interval.

-  **disk_usage_bytes** - total size of journal obtained from sd_journal_get_usage().

Here is an example output of corresponding imjournal impstat message, which is produced by loading imjournal
with default rate-limit interval and burst and running a docker container with log-driver as journald that
spews lots of logs to stdout:

.. code-block:: none

	Jun 13 15:02:48 app1-1.example.com rsyslogd-pstats: imjournal: origin=imjournal submitted=20000 read=216557
	discarded=196557 failed=0 poll_failed=0 rotations=6 recovery_attempts=0 ratelimit_discarded_in_interval=196557
	disk_usage_bytes=106610688

Although these counters provide insight into imjournal end message submissions to main queue as well as losses due to
rate-limiting or other problems to extract messages from journal, they don't offer full visibility into journal end
issues. While these counters measure journal rotations and disk usage, they do not offer visibility into message
loss due to journal rate-limiting. sd_journal_* API does not provide any visibility into messages that are
discarded by the journal due to rate-limiting. Journald does emit a syslog message when log messages cannot make
it into the journal due to rate-limiting:

.. code-block::	none

	Jun 13 15:50:32 app1-1.example.com systemd-journal[333]: Suppressed 102 messages from /system.slice/docker.service

Such messages can be processed after they are read through imjournal to get a signal for message loss due to journal
end rate-limiting using a dynamic statistics counter for such log lines with a rule like this:

.. code-block:: none

	dyn_stats(name="journal" resettable="off")
	if $programname == 'journal' and $msg contains 'Suppressed' and $msg contains 'messages from' then {
		set $.inc = dyn_inc("journal", "suppressed_count");
	}

Caveats/Known Bugs:
===================

- As stated above, a corrupted systemd journal database can cause major
  problems, depending on what the corruption results in. This is beyond
  the control of the rsyslog team.

- imjournal does not check if messages received actually originated
  from rsyslog itself (via omjournal or other means). Depending on
  configuration, this can also lead to a loop. With imuxsock, this
  problem does not exist.


Build Requirements:
===================

Development headers for systemd, version >= 197.


Example 1
=========

The following example shows pulling structured imjournal messages and
saving them into /var/log/ceelog.

.. code-block:: none

  module(load="imjournal" PersistStateInterval="100"
         StateFile="/path/to/file") #load imjournal module
  module(load="mmjsonparse") #load mmjsonparse module for structured logs

  template(name="CEETemplate" type="string" string="%TIMESTAMP% %HOSTNAME% %syslogtag% @cee: %$!all-json%\n" ) #template for messages

  action(type="mmjsonparse")
  action(type="omfile" file="/var/log/ceelog" template="CEETemplate")


Example 2
=========

The following example is the same as `Example 1`, but with the input module.

.. code-block:: none

  ruleset(name="imjournam-example" queue.type="direct"){
   action(type="mmjsonparse")
   action(type="omfile" file="/var/log/ceelog" template="CEETemplate")
  }

  input(
   type="imjournal"
   ruleset="imjournam-example"
   main="on"
  )
