doc/source/configuration/modules/omgssapi.rst, before:

GSSAPI module support in rsyslog v3
===================================

What is it good for.

-  client-serverauthentication
-  Log messages encryption

Requirements.

-  Kerberos infrastructure
-  rsyslog, rsyslog-gssapi

Configuration.

Let's assume there are 3 machines in Kerberos Realm:

-  the first is running KDC (Kerberos Authentication Service and Key
   Distribution Center),
-  the second is a client sending its logs to the server,
-  the third is receiver, gathering all logs.

1. KDC:

-  Kerberos database must be properly set-up on KDC machine first. Use
   kadmin/kadmin.local to do that. Two principals need to be add in our
   case:

#. sender@REALM.ORG

-  client must have ticket for principal sender
-  REALM.ORG is kerberos Realm

#. host/receiver.mydomain.com@REALM.ORG - service principal

-  Use ktadd to export service principal and transfer it to
   /etc/krb5.keytab on receiver

2. CLIENT:

-  set-up rsyslog, in /etc/rsyslog.conf
-  $ModLoad omgssapi - load output gss module
-  $GSSForwardServiceName otherThanHost - set the name of service
   principal, "host" is the default one
-  \*.\* :omgssapi:receiver.mydomain.com - action line, forward logs to
   receiver
-  kinit root - get the TGT ticket
-  service rsyslog start

3. SERVER:

-  set-up rsyslog, in /etc/rsyslog.conf

-  $ModLoad `imgssapi <imgssapi.html>`_ - load input gss module

-  $InputGSSServerServiceName otherThanHost - set the name of service
   principal, "host" is the default one

-  $InputGSSServerPermitPlainTCP on - accept GSS and TCP connections
   (not authenticated senders), off by default

-  $InputGSSServerRun 514 - run server on port

-  service rsyslog start

The picture demonstrate how things work.

.. figure:: gssapi.png
   :align: center
   :alt: rsyslog gssapi support

   rsyslog gssapi support


Configuration Parameters
========================

.. note::

   Parameter names are case-insensitive; camelCase is recommended for readability.

Module Parameters
-----------------

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Parameter
     - Summary
   * - :ref:`param-omgssapi-gssforwardservicename`
     - .. include:: ../../reference/parameters/omgssapi-gssforwardservicename.rst
        :start-after: .. summary-start
        :end-before: .. summary-end
   * - :ref:`param-omgssapi-gssmode`
     - .. include:: ../../reference/parameters/omgssapi-gssmode.rst
        :start-after: .. summary-start
        :end-before: .. summary-end
   * - :ref:`param-omgssapi-actiongssforwarddefaulttemplate`
     - .. include:: ../../reference/parameters/omgssapi-actiongssforwarddefaulttemplate.rst
        :start-after: .. summary-start
        :end-before: .. summary-end

Action Parameters
-----------------

The ``omgssapi`` action is configured via module parameters. The action only
takes a ``target`` parameter. Legacy ``:omgssapi:`` syntax is also supported.

.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   ../../reference/parameters/omgssapi-gssforwardservicename
   ../../reference/parameters/omgssapi-gssmode
   ../../reference/parameters/omgssapi-actiongssforwarddefaulttemplate

Commit message:

omgssapi: document legacy action options
Clarify the omgssapi action parameter section to describe modern action() usage and the legacy :omgssapi: syntax options for compression and TCP framing so administrators can maintain existing configurations accurately.

AI-Agent: ChatGPT

doc/source/configuration/modules/omgssapi.rst, after:

GSSAPI module support in rsyslog v3
===================================

What is it good for.

-  client-serverauthentication
-  Log messages encryption

Requirements.

-  Kerberos infrastructure
-  rsyslog, rsyslog-gssapi

Configuration.

Let's assume there are 3 machines in Kerberos Realm:

-  the first is running KDC (Kerberos Authentication Service and Key
   Distribution Center),
-  the second is a client sending its logs to the server,
-  the third is receiver, gathering all logs.

1. KDC:

-  Kerberos database must be properly set-up on KDC machine first. Use
   kadmin/kadmin.local to do that. Two principals need to be add in our
   case:

#. sender@REALM.ORG

-  client must have ticket for principal sender
-  REALM.ORG is kerberos Realm

#. host/receiver.mydomain.com@REALM.ORG - service principal

-  Use ktadd to export service principal and transfer it to
   /etc/krb5.keytab on receiver

2. CLIENT:

-  set-up rsyslog, in /etc/rsyslog.conf
-  $ModLoad omgssapi - load output gss module
-  $GSSForwardServiceName otherThanHost - set the name of service
   principal, "host" is the default one
-  \*.\* :omgssapi:receiver.mydomain.com - action line, forward logs to
   receiver
-  kinit root - get the TGT ticket
-  service rsyslog start

3. SERVER:

-  set-up rsyslog, in /etc/rsyslog.conf

-  $ModLoad `imgssapi <imgssapi.html>`_ - load input gss module

-  $InputGSSServerServiceName otherThanHost - set the name of service
   principal, "host" is the default one

-  $InputGSSServerPermitPlainTCP on - accept GSS and TCP connections
   (not authenticated senders), off by default

-  $InputGSSServerRun 514 - run server on port

-  service rsyslog start

The picture demonstrate how things work.

.. figure:: gssapi.png
   :align: center
   :alt: rsyslog gssapi support

   rsyslog gssapi support


Configuration Parameters
========================

.. note::

   Parameter names are case-insensitive; camelCase is recommended for readability.

Module Parameters
-----------------

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Parameter
     - Summary
   * - :ref:`param-omgssapi-gssforwardservicename`
     - .. include:: ../../reference/parameters/omgssapi-gssforwardservicename.rst
        :start-after: .. summary-start
        :end-before: .. summary-end
   * - :ref:`param-omgssapi-gssmode`
     - .. include:: ../../reference/parameters/omgssapi-gssmode.rst
        :start-after: .. summary-start
        :end-before: .. summary-end
   * - :ref:`param-omgssapi-actiongssforwarddefaulttemplate`
     - .. include:: ../../reference/parameters/omgssapi-actiongssforwarddefaulttemplate.rst
        :start-after: .. summary-start
        :end-before: .. summary-end

Action Parameters
-----------------

The ``omgssapi`` action is configured via module parameters. In modern
``action()`` syntax, it only takes a ``target`` parameter.

Legacy ``:omgssapi:`` syntax is also supported and includes options for
compression and TCP framing. These are specified in parentheses after the
selector, for example ``:omgssapi:(z5,o)hostname``.

-  **z[0-9]**: Enables zlib compression. The optional digit specifies the
   compression level (0-9). Defaults to 9 if no digit is given.
-  **o**: Enables octet-counted TCP framing.

.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   ../../reference/parameters/omgssapi-gssforwardservicename
   ../../reference/parameters/omgssapi-gssmode
   ../../reference/parameters/omgssapi-actiongssforwarddefaulttemplate
