`back <rsyslog_conf_templates.html>`_

The Property Replacer
=====================

**The property replacer is a core component in rsyslogd's output
system.** A syslog message has a number of well-defined properties (see
below). Each of this properties can be accessed **and** manipulated by
the property replacer. With it, it is easy to use only part of a
property value or manipulate the value, e.g. by converting all
characters to lower case.

Accessing Properties
====================

Syslog message properties are used inside templates. They are accessed
by putting them between percent signs. Properties can be modified by the
property replacer. The full syntax is as follows:

    **``%propname:fromChar:toChar:options:fieldname%``**

Available Properties
--------------------

**``propname``** is the name of the property to access. It is
case-insensitive (prior to 3.17.0, they were case-senstive). Currently
supported are:

**msg**

the MSG part of the message (aka "the message" ;))

**rawmsg**

the message excactly as it was received from the socket. Should be
useful for debugging.

**hostname**

hostname from the message

**source**

alias for HOSTNAME

**fromhost**

hostname of the system the message was received from (in a relay chain,
this is the system immediately in front of us and not necessarily the
original sender). This is a DNS-resolved name, except if that is not
possible or DNS resolution has been disabled.

**fromhost-ip**

The same as fromhost, but alsways as an IP address. Local inputs (like
imklog) use 127.0.0.1 in this property.

**syslogtag**

TAG from the message

**programname**

the "static" part of the tag, as defined by BSD syslogd. For example,
when TAG is "named[12345]", programname is "named".

**pri**

PRI part of the message - undecoded (single value)

**pri-text**

the PRI part of the message in textual form (e.g. "syslog.info")

**iut**

the monitorware InfoUnitType - used when talking to a
`MonitorWare <http://www.monitorware.com>`_ backend (also for
`phpLogCon <http://www.phplogcon.org/>`_)

**syslogfacility**

the facility from the message - in numerical form

**syslogfacility-text**

the facility from the message - in text form

**syslogseverity**

severity from the message - in numerical form

**syslogseverity-text**

severity from the message - in text form

**syslogpriority**

an alias for syslogseverity - included for historical reasons (be
careful: it still is the severity, not PRI!)

**syslogpriority-text**

an alias for syslogseverity-text

**timegenerated**

timestamp when the message was RECEIVED. Always in high resolution

**timereported**

timestamp from the message. Resolution depends on what was provided in
the message (in most cases, only seconds)

**timestamp**

alias for timereported

**protocol-version**

The contents of the PROTCOL-VERSION field from IETF draft
draft-ietf-syslog-protcol

**structured-data**

The contents of the STRUCTURED-DATA field from IETF draft
draft-ietf-syslog-protocol

**app-name**

The contents of the APP-NAME field from IETF draft
draft-ietf-syslog-protocol

**procid**

The contents of the PROCID field from IETF draft
draft-ietf-syslog-protocol

**msgid**

The contents of the MSGID field from IETF draft
draft-ietf-syslog-protocol

**parsesuccess**

This returns the status of the **last** called higher level parser, like
mmjsonparse. A higher level parser parses the actual message for
additional structured data and maintains an extra property table while
doing so (this is often referred to as "cee data" because the idea was
originally rooted in the cee effort, only (but has been extended since
then). Note that higher level parsers must explicitely support (and set)
this property. So, depending on the parser, it may not be set correctly.
If the parser properly supports it, the value "OK" means that parsing
was successfull, while "FAIL" means the parser could not successfully
obtain any data. Failure state is not necessarily an error. For example,
it may simple indicate that the cee-enhanced syslog parser (mmjsonparse)
did not detect cee-enhanced format, what can be totally valid. Using
this property, further processing of the message can be directed based
on this parsing outcome. If no parser has been called at the time this
property is accessed, it will contain "FAIL".
**This property is available since version 6.3.8.**

**inputname**

The name of the input module that generated the message (e.g.
"imuxsock", "imudp"). Note that not all modules necessarily provide this
property. If not provided, it is an empty string. Also note that the
input module may provide any value of its liking. Most importantly, it
is **not** necessarily the module input name. Internal sources can also
provide inputnames. Currently, "rsyslogd" is defined as inputname for
messages internally generated by rsyslogd, for example startup and
shutdown and error messages. This property is considered useful when
trying to filter messages based on where they originated - e.g. locally
generated messages ("rsyslogd", "imuxsock", "imklog") should go to a
different place than messages generated somewhere.

**$bom**

The UTF-8 encoded Unicode byte-order mask (BOM). This may be useful in
templates for RFC5424 support, when the character set is know to be
Unicode.

**$uptime**

system-uptime in seconds (as reported by operating system).

**$now**

The current date stamp in the format YYYY-MM-DD

**$year**

The current year (4-digit)

**$month**

The current month (2-digit)

**$day**

The current day of the month (2-digit)

**$hour**

The current hour in military (24 hour) time (2-digit)

**$hhour**

The current half hour we are in. From minute 0 to 29, this is always 0
while from 30 to 59 it is always 1.

**$qhour**

The current quarter hour we are in. Much like $HHOUR, but values range
from 0 to 3 (for the four quater hours that are in each hour)

**$minute**

The current minute (2-digit)

**$myhostname**

The name of the current host as it knows itself (probably useful for
filtering in a generic way)

**$!<name>**

This is the "bridge" to syslog message normalization (via
`mmnormalize <mmnormalize.html>`_): name is a name defined inside the
normalization rule. It has the value selected by the rule or none if no
rule with this field did match. You can also use these properties to
specify JSON fields from the CEE-enhanced syslog message, once you parse
it with `mmjsonparse <mmjsonparse.html>`_

**$!all-json**

This is the JSON part of the CEE-enhanced syslog message, which can be
parsed with `mmjsonparse <mmjsonparse.html>`_

Properties starting with a $-sign are so-called system properties. These
do NOT stem from the message but are rather internally-generated.

Legacy Character Positions
--------------------------

**``FromChar``** and **``toChar``** are used to build substrings. They
specify the offset within the string that should be copied. Offset
counting starts at 1, so if you need to obtain the first 2 characters of
the message text, you can use this syntax: "%msg:1:2%". If you do not
whish to specify from and to, but you want to specify options, you still
need to include the colons. For example, if you would like to convert
the full message text to lower case, use "%msg:::lowercase%". If you
would like to extract from a position until the end of the string, you
can place a dollar-sign ("$") in toChar (e.g. %msg:10:$%, which will
extract from position 10 to the end of the string).

There is also support for **regular expressions**. To use them, you need
to place a "R" into FromChar. This tells rsyslog that a regular
expression instead of position-based extraction is desired. The actual
regular expression must then be provided in toChar. The regular
expression **must** be followed by the string "--end". It denotes the
end of the regular expression and will not become part of it. If you are
using regular expressions, the property replacer will return the part of
the property text that matches the regular expression. An example for a
property replacer sequence with a regular expression is:
"%msg:R:.\*Sev:. \\(.\*\\) \\[.\*--end%"

It is possible to specify some parametes after the "R". These are
comma-separated. They are:

R,<regexp-type>,<submatch>,<`nomatch <rsyslog_conf_nomatch.html>`_\ >,<match-number>

regexp-type is either "BRE" for Posix basic regular expressions or "ERE"
for extended ones. The string must be given in upper case. The default
is "BRE" to be consistent with earlier versions of rsyslog that did not
support ERE. The submatch identifies the submatch to be used with the
result. A single digit is supported. Match 0 is the full match, while 1
to 9 are the acutal submatches. The match-number identifies which match
to use, if the expression occurs more than once inside the string.
Please note that the first match is number 0, the second 1 and so on. Up
to 10 matches (up to number 9) are supported. Please note that it would
be more natural to have the match-number in front of submatch, but this
would break backward-compatibility. So the match-number must be
specified after "nomatch".

`nomatch <rsyslog_conf_nomatch.html>`_ specifies what should be used in
case no match is found.

The following is a sample of an ERE expression that takes the first
submatch from the message string and replaces the expression with the
full field if no match is found:

%msg:R,ERE,1,FIELD:for (vlan[0-9]\*):--end%

and this takes the first submatch of the second match of said
expression:

%msg:R,ERE,1,FIELD,1:for (vlan[0-9]\*):--end%

**Please note: there is also a `rsyslog regular expression
checker/generator <http://www.rsyslog.com/tool-regex>`_ online tool
available.** With that tool, you can check your regular expressions and
also generate a valid property replacer sequence. Usage of this tool is
recommended. Depending on the version offered, the tool may not cover
all subleties that can be done with the property replacer. It
concentrates on the most often used cases. So it is still useful to
hand-craft expressions for demanding environments.

**Also, extraction can be done based on so-called "fields"**. To do so,
place a "F" into FromChar. A field in its current definition is anything
that is delimited by a delimiter character. The delimiter by default is
TAB (US-ASCII value 9). However, if can be changed to any other US-ASCII
character by specifying a comma and the **decimal** US-ASCII value of
the delimiter immediately after the "F". For example, to use comma (",")
as a delimiter, use this field specifier: "F,44".  If your syslog data
is delimited, this is a quicker way to extract than via regular
expressions (actually, a \*much\* quicker way). Field counting starts at
1. Field zero is accepted, but will always lead to a "field not found"
error. The same happens if a field number higher than the number of
fields in the property is requested. The field number must be placed in
the "ToChar" parameter. An example where the 3rd field (delimited by
TAB) from the msg property is extracted is as follows: "%msg:F:3%". The
same example with semicolon as delimiter is "%msg:F,59:3%".

Please note that the special characters "F" and "R" are case-sensitive.
Only upper case works, lower case will return an error. There are no
white spaces permitted inside the sequence (that will lead to error
messages and will NOT provide the intended result).

Each occurence of the field delimiter starts a new field. However, if
you add a plus sign ("+") after the field delimiter, multiple
delimiters, one immediately after the others, are treated as separate
fields. This can be useful in cases where the syslog message contains
such sequences. A frequent case may be with code that is written as
follows:

````

::

    int n, m;
    ...
    syslog(LOG_ERR, "%d test %6d", n, m);

This will result into things like this in syslog messages: "1
test      2", "1 test     23", "1 test  234567"

As you can see, the fields are delimited by space characters, but their
exact number is unknown. They can properly be extracted as follows:

"%msg:F,32:2%" to "%msg:F,32+:2%".

This feature was suggested by Zhuang Yuyao and implemented by him. It is
modeled after perl compatible regular expressions.

Property Options
----------------

**``property options``** are case-insensitive. They are available as of
version 6.5.0. Currently, the following options are defined:

**Name**

New format. Name of the template / property / constant.

**Outname**

This field permits to specify a field name for structured-data emitting
property replacer options. It is most useful to set, for example, the
name for JSON-based fields (like used in ommngodb). For text-based
modules, it is simply ignored. If not specified, the original property
name is used, with the exception of properties starting with "$!", where
that prefix is removed. Note that unnamaned constants are NOT forwarded
to output modules that expect structure (like ommnogodb). To pass
constants, an outname must be set.

**CaseConversion**

New format. Additional values below.

upper

convert property to lowercase only

lower

convert property text to uppercase only

**DateFormat**

New format, additional parameter is needed. See below.

mysql

format as mysql date

pgsql

format as pgsql date

rfc3164

format as RFC 3164 date

rfc3164-buggyday

similar to date-rfc3164, but emulates a common coding error: RFC 3164
demands that a space is written for single-digit days. With this option,
a zero is written instead. This format seems to be used by syslog-ng and
the date-rfc3164-buggyday option can be used in migration scenarios
where otherwise lots of scripts would need to be adjusted. It is
recommended *not* to use this option when forwarding to remote hosts -
they may treat the date as invalid (especially when parsing strictly
according to RFC 3164).

*This feature was introduced in rsyslog 4.6.2 and v4 versions above and
5.5.3 and all versions above.*

rfc3339

format as RFC 3339 date

unixtimestamp

format as unix timestamp (seconds since epoch)

subseconds

just the subseconds of a timestamp (always 0 for a low precision
timestamp)

pos-end-relative

the from and to position is relative to the end of the string instead of
the usual start of string. (available since rsyslog v7.3.10)

**ControlCharacters**

Option values for how to process control characters

escape

replace control characters (ASCII value 127 and values less then 32)
with an escape sequence. The sequnce is "#<charval>" where charval is
the 3-digit decimal value of the control character. For example, a
tabulator would be replaced by "#009".
 Note: using this option requires that
`$EscapeControlCharactersOnReceive <rsconf1_escapecontrolcharactersonreceive.html>`_
is set to off.

space

replace control characters by spaces
 Note: using this option requires that
`$EscapeControlCharactersOnReceive <rsconf1_escapecontrolcharactersonreceive.html>`_
is set to off.

drop

drop control characters - the resulting string will neither contain
control characters, escape sequences nor any other replacement character
like space.
 Note: using this option requires that
`$EscapeControlCharactersOnReceive <rsconf1_escapecontrolcharactersonreceive.html>`_
is set to off.

**SecurePath**

Option values for securing path templates.

drop

Drops slashes inside the field (e.g. "a/b" becomes "ab"). Useful for
secure pathname generation (with dynafiles).

replace

Replace slashes inside the field by an underscore. (e.g. "a/b" becomes
"a\_b"). Useful for secure pathname generation (with dynafiles).

**Format**

Option values for the general output format.

json

encode the value so that it can be used inside a JSON field. This means
that several characters (according to the JSON spec) are being escaped,
for example US-ASCII LF is replaced by "\\n". The json option cannot be
used together with either jsonf or csv options.

jsonf

*(available in 6.3.9+)* This signifies that the property should be
expressed as a json **f**\ ield. That means not only the property is
written, but rather a complete json field in the format
 "fieldname"="value" where "filedname" is the assigend field name (or
the property name if none was assigned) and value is the end result of
property replacer operation. Note that value supports all property
replacer options, like substrings, case converson and the like. Values
are properly json-escaped. However, field names are (currently) not. It
is expected that proper field names are configured. The jsonf option
cannot be used together with either json or csv options.

csv

formats the resulting field (after all modifications) in CSV format as
specified in `RFC 4180 <http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4180.txt>`_. Rsyslog
will always use double quotes. Note that in order to have full
CSV-formatted text, you need to define a proper template. An example is
this one:
$template csvline,"%syslogtag:::csv%,%msg:::csv%"
Most importantly, you need to provide the commas between the fields
inside the template. The csv option cannot be used together with either
json or jsonf options.
*This feature was introduced in rsyslog 4.1.6.*

**droplastlf**

The last LF in the message (if any), is dropped. Especially useful for
PIX.

**spifno1stsp**

This option looks scary and should probably not be used by a user. For
any field given, it returns either a single space character or no
character at all. Field content is never returned. A space is returned
if (and only if) the first character of the field's content is NOT a
space. This option is kind of a hack to solve a problem rooted in RFC
3164: 3164 specifies no delimiter between the syslog tag sequence and
the actual message text. Almost all implementation in fact delemit the
two by a space. As of RFC 3164, this space is part of the message text
itself. This leads to a problem when building the message (e.g. when
writing to disk or forwarding). Should a delimiting space be included if
the message does not start with one? If not, the tag is immediately
followed by another non-space character, which can lead some log parsers
to misinterpret what is the tag and what the message. The problem
finally surfaced when the klog module was restructured and the tag
correctly written. It exists with other message sources, too. The
solution was the introduction of this special property replacer option.
Now, the default template can contain a conditional space, which exists
only if the message does not start with one. While this does not solve
all issues, it should work good enough in the far majority of all cases.
If you read this text and have no idea of what it is talking about -
relax: this is a good indication you will never need this option. Simply
forget about it ;)

**New character position**

In addition to the above mentioned Character Positions in the legacy
format, positions can be determined by specifying the correct options
for the properties. Again, this is mostly for using the list format.

position.From

Character position in the property to start from.

position.To

Character position that determines the end for extraction. If the value
is "$" then the end of the string will be used.

field.Number

The number of the field, which should be used for the search operation
with Regex.

field.Delimiter

The Character that should delimit a field. Example: ",". Everything in a
property until this character is considered a field.

regex.Expression

Value to be compared to property.

regex.Type

Values BRE or ERE

regex.NoMatchMode

DFLT, BLANK, ZERO, FIELD

regex.Match

Match to use.

regex.Submatch

Submatch to use. Values 0-9 whereas 0 = All

Legacy Property Options
-----------------------

**``property options``** are case-insensitive. Currently, the following
options are defined:

**uppercase**

convert property to lowercase only

**lowercase**

convert property text to uppercase only

**json**

encode the value so that it can be used inside a JSON field. This means
that several characters (according to the JSON spec) are being escaped,
for example US-ASCII LF is replaced by "\\n". The json option cannot be
used together with either jsonf or csv options.

**jsonf**

*(available in 6.3.9+)* This signifies that the property should be
expressed as a json **f**\ ield. That means not only the property is
written, but rather a complete json field in the format
 "fieldname"="value" where "filedname" is the assigend field name (or
the property name if none was assigned) and value is the end result of
property replacer operation. Note that value supports all property
replacer options, like substrings, case converson and the like. Values
are properly json-escaped. However, field names are (currently) not. It
is expected that proper field names are configured. The jsonf option
cannot be used together with either json or csv options.

**csv**

formats the resulting field (after all modifications) in CSV format as
specified in `RFC 4180 <http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4180.txt>`_. Rsyslog
will always use double quotes. Note that in order to have full
CSV-formatted text, you need to define a proper template. An example is
this one:
$template csvline,"%syslogtag:::csv%,%msg:::csv%"
Most importantly, you need to provide the commas between the fields
inside the template. The csv option cannot be used together with either
json or jsonf options.
*This feature was introduced in rsyslog 4.1.6.*

**drop-last-lf**

The last LF in the message (if any), is dropped. Especially useful for
PIX.

**date-mysql**

format as mysql date

**date-rfc3164**

format as RFC 3164 date

**date-rfc3164-buggyday**

similar to date-rfc3164, but emulates a common coding error: RFC 3164
demands that a space is written for single-digit days. With this option,
a zero is written instead. This format seems to be used by syslog-ng and
the date-rfc3164-buggyday option can be used in migration scenarios
where otherwise lots of scripts would need to be adjusted. It is
recommended *not* to use this option when forwarding to remote hosts -
they may treat the date as invalid (especially when parsing strictly
according to RFC 3164).

*This feature was introduced in rsyslog 4.6.2 and v4 versions above and
5.5.3 and all versions above.*

**date-rfc3339**

format as RFC 3339 date

**date-unixtimestamp**

format as unix timestamp (seconds since epoch)

**date-subseconds**

just the subseconds of a timestamp (always 0 for a low precision
timestamp)

**escape-cc**

replace control characters (ASCII value 127 and values less then 32)
with an escape sequence. The sequnce is "#<charval>" where charval is
the 3-digit decimal value of the control character. For example, a
tabulator would be replaced by "#009".
 Note: using this option requires that
`$EscapeControlCharactersOnReceive <rsconf1_escapecontrolcharactersonreceive.html>`_
is set to off.

**space-cc**

replace control characters by spaces
 Note: using this option requires that
`$EscapeControlCharactersOnReceive <rsconf1_escapecontrolcharactersonreceive.html>`_
is set to off.

**drop-cc**

drop control characters - the resulting string will neither contain
control characters, escape sequences nor any other replacement character
like space.
 Note: using this option requires that
`$EscapeControlCharactersOnReceive <rsconf1_escapecontrolcharactersonreceive.html>`_
is set to off.

**sp-if-no-1st-sp**

This option looks scary and should probably not be used by a user. For
any field given, it returns either a single space character or no
character at all. Field content is never returned. A space is returned
if (and only if) the first character of the field's content is NOT a
space. This option is kind of a hack to solve a problem rooted in RFC
3164: 3164 specifies no delimiter between the syslog tag sequence and
the actual message text. Almost all implementation in fact delemit the
two by a space. As of RFC 3164, this space is part of the message text
itself. This leads to a problem when building the message (e.g. when
writing to disk or forwarding). Should a delimiting space be included if
the message does not start with one? If not, the tag is immediately
followed by another non-space character, which can lead some log parsers
to misinterpret what is the tag and what the message. The problem
finally surfaced when the klog module was restructured and the tag
correctly written. It exists with other message sources, too. The
solution was the introduction of this special property replacer option.
Now, the default template can contain a conditional space, which exists
only if the message does not start with one. While this does not solve
all issues, it should work good enough in the far majority of all cases.
If you read this text and have no idea of what it is talking about -
relax: this is a good indication you will never need this option. Simply
forget about it ;)

**secpath-drop**

Drops slashes inside the field (e.g. "a/b" becomes "ab"). Useful for
secure pathname generation (with dynafiles).

**secpath-replace**

Replace slashes inside the field by an underscore. (e.g. "a/b" becomes
"a\_b"). Useful for secure pathname generation (with dynafiles).

**mandatory-field**

In templates that are used for building field lists (in particular,
ommongodb), include this field, even if it is empty (or NULL). If not
set, the field will be removed from the output field set if empty. The
latter is the default case.

To use multiple options, simply place them one after each other with a
comma delmimiting them. For example "escape-cc,sp-if-no-1st-sp". If you
use conflicting options together, the last one will override the
previous one. For example, using "escape-cc,drop-cc" will use drop-cc
and "drop-cc,escape-cc" will use escape-cc mode.

Fieldname
---------

*(available in 6.3.9+)*

This field permits to specify a field name for structured-data emitting
property replacer options. It was initially introduced to support the
"jsonf" option, for which it provides the capability to set an
alternative field name. If it is not specified, it defaults to the
property name. **See also**

-  Article on "`Recording the Priority of Syslog
   Messages <rsyslog_recording_pri.html>`_\ " (describes use of
   templates to record severity and facility of a message)
-  `Configuration file format <rsyslog_conf.html>`_, this is where you
   actually use the property replacer.
-  Difference between timereported and timegenerated.

[`manual index <manual.html>`_\ ]
[`rsyslog.conf <rsyslog_conf.html>`_\ ] [`rsyslog
site <http://www.rsyslog.com/>`_\ ]

This documentation is part of the `rsyslog <http://www.rsyslog.com/>`_
project.
 Copyright © 2008, 2009 by `Rainer
Gerhards <http://www.gerhards.net/rainer>`_ and
`Adiscon <http://www.adiscon.com/>`_. Released under the GNU GPL version
2 or higher.
