doc/source/deployments/rosi_collector/client_setup.rst, before:

.. _rosi-collector-client-setup:

Client Setup
============

.. index::
   pair: ROSI Collector; client configuration
   single: rsyslog forwarding
   single: node_exporter

This guide explains how to configure client hosts to send logs and metrics
to your ROSI Collector. Each client needs rsyslog configured for log
forwarding and optionally node_exporter for system metrics.

.. figure:: /_static/client-logs.png
   :alt: Client logs in Grafana
   :align: center
   
   Client logs visible in Grafana Syslog Explorer

Overview
--------

Client configuration involves:

1. **rsyslog** - Forward logs to the collector (TCP port 10514)
2. **node_exporter** - Expose metrics for Prometheus (port 9100)
3. **impstats sidecar** (optional) - Expose rsyslog internal metrics (port 9898) for the Syslog Health dashboard
4. **Collector registration** - Add client to Prometheus targets (node and/or impstats)

Quick Setup (Automated)
-----------------------

Download and run the setup scripts from your ROSI Collector:

**rsyslog Client**

.. code-block:: bash

   # Download from your collector's downloads container
   wget https://YOUR_COLLECTOR_DOMAIN/downloads/install-rsyslog-client.sh
   chmod +x install-rsyslog-client.sh
   sudo ./install-rsyslog-client.sh

**Node Exporter**

.. code-block:: bash

   wget https://YOUR_COLLECTOR_DOMAIN/downloads/install-node-exporter.sh
   chmod +x install-node-exporter.sh
   sudo ./install-node-exporter.sh

Replace ``YOUR_COLLECTOR_DOMAIN`` with your ROSI Collector's base domain
(the same value as ``TRAEFIK_DOMAIN`` in your ``.env`` file).

Manual Setup: rsyslog
---------------------

If you prefer manual configuration, follow these steps.

**Step 1: Install rsyslog**

Most Linux distributions include rsyslog by default. Verify it's installed:

.. code-block:: bash

   rsyslogd -v
   # rsyslogd  8.2302.0 (aka 2023.02) ...

If not installed:

.. code-block:: bash

   # Debian/Ubuntu
   sudo apt install rsyslog

   # RHEL/CentOS/Rocky
   sudo dnf install rsyslog

**Step 2: Configure Forwarding**

Create a forwarding configuration file:

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo nano /etc/rsyslog.d/60-forward-to-collector.conf

Add this configuration:

.. code-block:: none

   # Forward all logs to ROSI Collector
   # Replace COLLECTOR_IP with your collector's IP or hostname
   
   # Use queue for reliable delivery
   $ActionQueueType LinkedList
   $ActionQueueFileName collector-queue
   $ActionQueueMaxDiskSpace 1g
   $ActionQueueSaveOnShutdown on
   $ActionResumeRetryCount -1
   
   # Forward to collector
   *.* @@COLLECTOR_IP:10514

Replace ``COLLECTOR_IP`` with your ROSI Collector's IP address or hostname.

**Step 3: Restart rsyslog**

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo systemctl restart rsyslog

**Step 4: Test Forwarding**

Send a test message:

.. code-block:: bash

   logger "Test message from $(hostname)"

Check Grafana's Explore interface to verify the message arrived.

Manual Setup: rsyslog with TLS
------------------------------

For encrypted log transport, configure TLS on port 6514. This requires
the collector to have TLS enabled (see :doc:`installation`).

**Step 1: Install rsyslog-openssl**

The OpenSSL network stream driver is required:

.. code-block:: bash

   # Debian/Ubuntu
   sudo apt install rsyslog-openssl
   
   # RHEL/CentOS/Rocky
   sudo dnf install rsyslog-openssl

**Step 2: Get CA Certificate**

Download the CA certificate from your collector:

.. code-block:: bash

   # Download CA cert from the downloads container
   sudo mkdir -p /etc/rsyslog.d/certs
   sudo wget -O /etc/rsyslog.d/certs/ca.pem \
       https://YOUR_COLLECTOR_DOMAIN/downloads/ca.pem

For mTLS, get your client certificate package from the admin and install it:

.. code-block:: bash

   # Download one-time package (URL from admin)
   wget https://YOUR_COLLECTOR_DOMAIN/downloads/tls-packages/CLIENT_TOKEN.tar.gz
   
   # Extract and install
   tar xzf CLIENT_TOKEN.tar.gz
   cd CLIENT_NAME
   sudo ./install.sh

**Step 3: Configure TLS Forwarding**

Create a TLS forwarding configuration:

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo nano /etc/rsyslog.d/60-forward-tls.conf

For server-only auth (anon mode):

.. code-block:: none

   # TLS settings - OpenSSL driver loads automatically
   global(
       workDirectory="/var/spool/rsyslog"
       DefaultNetstreamDriver="ossl"
       DefaultNetstreamDriverCAFile="/etc/rsyslog.d/certs/ca.pem"
   )
   
   # Forward all logs via TLS
   *.* action(
       type="omfwd"
       target="COLLECTOR_HOSTNAME"
       port="6514"
       protocol="tcp"
       StreamDriver="ossl"
       StreamDriverMode="1"
       StreamDriverAuthMode="anon"
       queue.type="LinkedList"
       queue.size="10000"
       queue.filename="fwd_tls"
       queue.saveOnShutdown="on"
       action.resumeRetryCount="-1"
   )

For mutual TLS (x509/certvalid or x509/name):

.. code-block:: none

   # TLS settings with client certificate
   global(
       workDirectory="/var/spool/rsyslog"
       DefaultNetstreamDriver="ossl"
       DefaultNetstreamDriverCAFile="/etc/rsyslog.d/certs/ca.pem"
       DefaultNetstreamDriverCertFile="/etc/rsyslog.d/certs/client-cert.pem"
       DefaultNetstreamDriverKeyFile="/etc/rsyslog.d/certs/client-key.pem"
   )
   
   # Forward all logs via mTLS
   *.* action(
       type="omfwd"
       target="COLLECTOR_HOSTNAME"
       port="6514"
       protocol="tcp"
       StreamDriver="ossl"
       StreamDriverMode="1"
       StreamDriverAuthMode="x509/name"
       queue.type="LinkedList"
       queue.size="10000"
       queue.filename="fwd_tls"
       queue.saveOnShutdown="on"
       action.resumeRetryCount="-1"
   )

Replace ``COLLECTOR_HOSTNAME`` with your collector's hostname.

**Step 4: Restart rsyslog**

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo systemctl restart rsyslog

**Step 5: Test TLS Connection**

.. code-block:: bash

   # Test TLS handshake
   openssl s_client -connect COLLECTOR_HOSTNAME:6514 \
       -CAfile /etc/rsyslog.d/certs/ca.pem
   
   # Send test message
   logger "TLS test from $(hostname)"

Manual Setup: Node Exporter
---------------------------

Node exporter provides system metrics (CPU, memory, disk, network) to
Prometheus.

**Step 1: Download Node Exporter**

.. code-block:: bash

   # Get latest version
   VERSION=$(curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/prometheus/node_exporter/releases/latest | grep tag_name | cut -d '"' -f 4 | tr -d 'v')
   
   wget https://github.com/prometheus/node_exporter/releases/download/v${VERSION}/node_exporter-${VERSION}.linux-amd64.tar.gz
   tar xzf node_exporter-${VERSION}.linux-amd64.tar.gz
   sudo mv node_exporter-${VERSION}.linux-amd64/node_exporter /usr/local/bin/

**Step 2: Create Systemd Service**

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo tee /etc/systemd/system/node_exporter.service << 'EOF'
   [Unit]
   Description=Prometheus Node Exporter
   After=network.target
   
   [Service]
   User=nobody
   ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/node_exporter
   Restart=always
   
   [Install]
   WantedBy=multi-user.target
   EOF

**Step 3: Start Service**

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo systemctl daemon-reload
   sudo systemctl enable --now node_exporter

**Step 4: Configure Firewall**

Allow your ROSI Collector to scrape metrics:

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo ufw allow from COLLECTOR_IP to any port 9100 proto tcp

Replace ``COLLECTOR_IP`` with your collector's IP address.

**Step 5: Verify**

.. code-block:: bash

   curl http://localhost:9100/metrics | head

Register Client on Collector
----------------------------

After configuring the client, add it to Prometheus targets on your
ROSI Collector server using the ``prometheus-target`` CLI tool.

**Node exporter only** (port 9100):

.. code-block:: bash

   # SSH to your ROSI Collector, then:
   prometheus-target add CLIENT_IP:9100 host=CLIENT_HOSTNAME [role=ROLE] [network=NETWORK]

**Node exporter and impstats sidecar** (ports 9100 and 9898) in one step:

.. code-block:: bash

   prometheus-target add-client CLIENT_IP host=CLIENT_HOSTNAME [role=ROLE] [network=NETWORK]

**Impstats only** (when the client runs the impstats sidecar on port 9898):

.. code-block:: bash

   prometheus-target --job impstats add CLIENT_IP:9898 host=CLIENT_HOSTNAME [role=ROLE] [network=NETWORK]

Example:

.. code-block:: bash

   prometheus-target add 10.0.0.50:9100 host=webserver-01 role=web network=production
   # Or both node and impstats:
   prometheus-target add-client 10.0.0.50 host=webserver-01 role=web network=internal

Available commands:

.. code-block:: bash

   prometheus-target add <IP:PORT> host=<name> [role=<value>] [network=<value>]
   prometheus-target --job impstats add <IP:9898> host=<name> role=rsyslog [network=<value>]
   prometheus-target add-client <IP> host=<name> [role=<value>] [network=<value>]
   prometheus-target list
   prometheus-target remove <IP:PORT>      # Remove by IP:port
   prometheus-target remove <hostname>     # Remove by hostname

Available labels:

- ``host`` (required) - Hostname for identification
- ``role`` - Server role (web, db, app, etc.)
- ``network`` - Network zone (internal, dmz, production)
- ``env`` - Environment (prod, staging, dev)
- Any custom ``key=value`` label

List all targets:

.. code-block:: bash

   prometheus-target list

Remove a target (either by IP:port or hostname):

.. code-block:: bash

   prometheus-target remove 10.0.0.50:9100
   # or
   prometheus-target remove webserver-01

Prometheus picks up changes within 5 minutes automatically.

Verification
------------

**Test Log Forwarding**

.. code-block:: bash

   # On client
   logger "Hello from $(hostname)"
   
   # On collector (or via Grafana)
   # Search for the message in Syslog Explorer

**Test Metrics Collection**

1. Go to Grafana → Host Metrics Overview dashboard
2. Select your client from the host dropdown
3. Verify CPU, memory, and disk metrics appear (Syslog Health shows impstats when the client runs the sidecar)

**Check Connection Status**

On the client, verify rsyslog queue status:

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo cat /var/spool/rsyslog/collector-queue*

An empty or missing queue indicates messages are flowing.

Troubleshooting
---------------

**Logs not appearing**

1. Check rsyslog status: ``sudo systemctl status rsyslog``
2. Test connectivity: ``telnet COLLECTOR_IP 10514``
3. Check queue directory: ``ls -la /var/spool/rsyslog/``

**Metrics not appearing**

1. Check node_exporter: ``sudo systemctl status node_exporter``
2. Test locally: ``curl http://localhost:9100/metrics``
3. Check firewall: ``sudo ufw status``

**See also**: :doc:`troubleshooting`

Next Steps
----------

- :doc:`grafana_dashboards` - Explore log data in dashboards
- :doc:`troubleshooting` - Solve common problems

Commit message:

feat(rosi-collector): impstats sidecar on server, Grafana rate limits, docs
- Add optional impstats sidecar on collector server via init.sh
  - Prompts or SERVER_IMPSTATS_SIDECAR=true
  - check_sidecar_requirements() prompts for python3-venv on Debian/Ubuntu
  - Auto-add server to node and impstats Prometheus targets (no duplicates)
- Traefik: separate rate-limit-grafana (600/min, burst 300) for Grafana
  - Reduces 429 errors on dashboard reload
- Host Metrics: Node Status Overview panel height set to 10
  - Fixed height; table scrolls for many hosts
- Docs: installation, grafana_dashboards, client_setup, troubleshooting
  - SERVER_IMPSTATS_SIDECAR, server auto-registration, 429, ensurepip

doc/source/deployments/rosi_collector/client_setup.rst, after:

.. _rosi-collector-client-setup:

Client Setup
============

.. index::
   pair: ROSI Collector; client configuration
   single: rsyslog forwarding
   single: node_exporter

This guide explains how to configure client hosts to send logs and metrics
to your ROSI Collector. Each client needs rsyslog configured for log
forwarding and optionally node_exporter for system metrics.

.. figure:: /_static/client-logs.png
   :alt: Client logs in Grafana
   :align: center
   
   Client logs visible in Grafana Syslog Explorer

Overview
--------

Client configuration involves:

1. **rsyslog** - Forward logs to the collector (TCP port 10514)
2. **node_exporter** - Expose metrics for Prometheus (port 9100)
3. **impstats sidecar** (optional) - Expose rsyslog internal metrics (port 9898) for the Syslog Health dashboard
4. **Collector registration** - Add client to Prometheus targets (node and/or impstats)

Quick Setup (Automated)
-----------------------

Download and run the setup scripts from your ROSI Collector:

**rsyslog Client**

.. code-block:: bash

   # Download from your collector's downloads container
   wget https://YOUR_COLLECTOR_DOMAIN/downloads/install-rsyslog-client.sh
   chmod +x install-rsyslog-client.sh
   sudo ./install-rsyslog-client.sh

**Node Exporter**

.. code-block:: bash

   wget https://YOUR_COLLECTOR_DOMAIN/downloads/install-node-exporter.sh
   chmod +x install-node-exporter.sh
   sudo ./install-node-exporter.sh

Replace ``YOUR_COLLECTOR_DOMAIN`` with your ROSI Collector's base domain
(the same value as ``TRAEFIK_DOMAIN`` in your ``.env`` file).

Manual Setup: rsyslog
---------------------

If you prefer manual configuration, follow these steps.

**Step 1: Install rsyslog**

Most Linux distributions include rsyslog by default. Verify it's installed:

.. code-block:: bash

   rsyslogd -v
   # rsyslogd  8.2302.0 (aka 2023.02) ...

If not installed:

.. code-block:: bash

   # Debian/Ubuntu
   sudo apt install rsyslog

   # RHEL/CentOS/Rocky
   sudo dnf install rsyslog

**Step 2: Configure Forwarding**

Create a forwarding configuration file:

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo nano /etc/rsyslog.d/60-forward-to-collector.conf

Add this configuration:

.. code-block:: none

   # Forward all logs to ROSI Collector
   # Replace COLLECTOR_IP with your collector's IP or hostname
   
   # Use queue for reliable delivery
   $ActionQueueType LinkedList
   $ActionQueueFileName collector-queue
   $ActionQueueMaxDiskSpace 1g
   $ActionQueueSaveOnShutdown on
   $ActionResumeRetryCount -1
   
   # Forward to collector
   *.* @@COLLECTOR_IP:10514

Replace ``COLLECTOR_IP`` with your ROSI Collector's IP address or hostname.

**Step 3: Restart rsyslog**

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo systemctl restart rsyslog

**Step 4: Test Forwarding**

Send a test message:

.. code-block:: bash

   logger "Test message from $(hostname)"

Check Grafana's Explore interface to verify the message arrived.

Manual Setup: rsyslog with TLS
------------------------------

For encrypted log transport, configure TLS on port 6514. This requires
the collector to have TLS enabled (see :doc:`installation`).

**Step 1: Install rsyslog-openssl**

The OpenSSL network stream driver is required:

.. code-block:: bash

   # Debian/Ubuntu
   sudo apt install rsyslog-openssl
   
   # RHEL/CentOS/Rocky
   sudo dnf install rsyslog-openssl

**Step 2: Get CA Certificate**

Download the CA certificate from your collector:

.. code-block:: bash

   # Download CA cert from the downloads container
   sudo mkdir -p /etc/rsyslog.d/certs
   sudo wget -O /etc/rsyslog.d/certs/ca.pem \
       https://YOUR_COLLECTOR_DOMAIN/downloads/ca.pem

For mTLS, get your client certificate package from the admin and install it:

.. code-block:: bash

   # Download one-time package (URL from admin)
   wget https://YOUR_COLLECTOR_DOMAIN/downloads/tls-packages/CLIENT_TOKEN.tar.gz
   
   # Extract and install
   tar xzf CLIENT_TOKEN.tar.gz
   cd CLIENT_NAME
   sudo ./install.sh

**Step 3: Configure TLS Forwarding**

Create a TLS forwarding configuration:

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo nano /etc/rsyslog.d/60-forward-tls.conf

For server-only auth (anon mode):

.. code-block:: none

   # TLS settings - OpenSSL driver loads automatically
   global(
       workDirectory="/var/spool/rsyslog"
       DefaultNetstreamDriver="ossl"
       DefaultNetstreamDriverCAFile="/etc/rsyslog.d/certs/ca.pem"
   )
   
   # Forward all logs via TLS
   *.* action(
       type="omfwd"
       target="COLLECTOR_HOSTNAME"
       port="6514"
       protocol="tcp"
       StreamDriver="ossl"
       StreamDriverMode="1"
       StreamDriverAuthMode="anon"
       queue.type="LinkedList"
       queue.size="10000"
       queue.filename="fwd_tls"
       queue.saveOnShutdown="on"
       action.resumeRetryCount="-1"
   )

For mutual TLS (x509/certvalid or x509/name):

.. code-block:: none

   # TLS settings with client certificate
   global(
       workDirectory="/var/spool/rsyslog"
       DefaultNetstreamDriver="ossl"
       DefaultNetstreamDriverCAFile="/etc/rsyslog.d/certs/ca.pem"
       DefaultNetstreamDriverCertFile="/etc/rsyslog.d/certs/client-cert.pem"
       DefaultNetstreamDriverKeyFile="/etc/rsyslog.d/certs/client-key.pem"
   )
   
   # Forward all logs via mTLS
   *.* action(
       type="omfwd"
       target="COLLECTOR_HOSTNAME"
       port="6514"
       protocol="tcp"
       StreamDriver="ossl"
       StreamDriverMode="1"
       StreamDriverAuthMode="x509/name"
       queue.type="LinkedList"
       queue.size="10000"
       queue.filename="fwd_tls"
       queue.saveOnShutdown="on"
       action.resumeRetryCount="-1"
   )

Replace ``COLLECTOR_HOSTNAME`` with your collector's hostname.

**Step 4: Restart rsyslog**

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo systemctl restart rsyslog

**Step 5: Test TLS Connection**

.. code-block:: bash

   # Test TLS handshake
   openssl s_client -connect COLLECTOR_HOSTNAME:6514 \
       -CAfile /etc/rsyslog.d/certs/ca.pem
   
   # Send test message
   logger "TLS test from $(hostname)"

Manual Setup: Node Exporter
---------------------------

Node exporter provides system metrics (CPU, memory, disk, network) to
Prometheus.

**Step 1: Download Node Exporter**

.. code-block:: bash

   # Get latest version
   VERSION=$(curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/prometheus/node_exporter/releases/latest | grep tag_name | cut -d '"' -f 4 | tr -d 'v')
   
   wget https://github.com/prometheus/node_exporter/releases/download/v${VERSION}/node_exporter-${VERSION}.linux-amd64.tar.gz
   tar xzf node_exporter-${VERSION}.linux-amd64.tar.gz
   sudo mv node_exporter-${VERSION}.linux-amd64/node_exporter /usr/local/bin/

**Step 2: Create Systemd Service**

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo tee /etc/systemd/system/node_exporter.service << 'EOF'
   [Unit]
   Description=Prometheus Node Exporter
   After=network.target
   
   [Service]
   User=nobody
   ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/node_exporter
   Restart=always
   
   [Install]
   WantedBy=multi-user.target
   EOF

**Step 3: Start Service**

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo systemctl daemon-reload
   sudo systemctl enable --now node_exporter

**Step 4: Configure Firewall**

Allow your ROSI Collector to scrape metrics:

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo ufw allow from COLLECTOR_IP to any port 9100 proto tcp

Replace ``COLLECTOR_IP`` with your collector's IP address.

**Step 5: Verify**

.. code-block:: bash

   curl http://localhost:9100/metrics | head

Register Client on Collector
----------------------------

After configuring the client, add it to Prometheus targets on your
ROSI Collector server using the ``prometheus-target`` CLI tool.

.. note::
   The collector server itself is automatically added to node_exporter
   and impstats targets by ``init.sh`` (impstats only when the sidecar
   is installed on the server).

**Node exporter only** (port 9100):

.. code-block:: bash

   # SSH to your ROSI Collector, then:
   prometheus-target add CLIENT_IP:9100 host=CLIENT_HOSTNAME [role=ROLE] [network=NETWORK]

**Node exporter and impstats sidecar** (ports 9100 and 9898) in one step:

.. code-block:: bash

   prometheus-target add-client CLIENT_IP host=CLIENT_HOSTNAME [role=ROLE] [network=NETWORK]

**Impstats only** (when the client runs the impstats sidecar on port 9898):

.. code-block:: bash

   prometheus-target --job impstats add CLIENT_IP:9898 host=CLIENT_HOSTNAME [role=ROLE] [network=NETWORK]

Example:

.. code-block:: bash

   prometheus-target add 10.0.0.50:9100 host=webserver-01 role=web network=production
   # Or both node and impstats:
   prometheus-target add-client 10.0.0.50 host=webserver-01 role=web network=internal

Available commands:

.. code-block:: bash

   prometheus-target add <IP:PORT> host=<name> [role=<value>] [network=<value>]
   prometheus-target --job impstats add <IP:9898> host=<name> role=rsyslog [network=<value>]
   prometheus-target add-client <IP> host=<name> [role=<value>] [network=<value>]
   prometheus-target list
   prometheus-target remove <IP:PORT>      # Remove by IP:port
   prometheus-target remove <hostname>     # Remove by hostname

Available labels:

- ``host`` (required) - Hostname for identification
- ``role`` - Server role (web, db, app, etc.)
- ``network`` - Network zone (internal, dmz, production)
- ``env`` - Environment (prod, staging, dev)
- Any custom ``key=value`` label

List all targets:

.. code-block:: bash

   prometheus-target list

Remove a target (either by IP:port or hostname):

.. code-block:: bash

   prometheus-target remove 10.0.0.50:9100
   # or
   prometheus-target remove webserver-01

Prometheus picks up changes within 5 minutes automatically.

Verification
------------

**Test Log Forwarding**

.. code-block:: bash

   # On client
   logger "Hello from $(hostname)"
   
   # On collector (or via Grafana)
   # Search for the message in Syslog Explorer

**Test Metrics Collection**

1. Go to Grafana → Host Metrics Overview dashboard
2. Select your client from the host dropdown
3. Verify CPU, memory, and disk metrics appear (Syslog Health shows impstats when the client runs the sidecar)

**Check Connection Status**

On the client, verify rsyslog queue status:

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo cat /var/spool/rsyslog/collector-queue*

An empty or missing queue indicates messages are flowing.

Troubleshooting
---------------

**Logs not appearing**

1. Check rsyslog status: ``sudo systemctl status rsyslog``
2. Test connectivity: ``telnet COLLECTOR_IP 10514``
3. Check queue directory: ``ls -la /var/spool/rsyslog/``

**Metrics not appearing**

1. Check node_exporter: ``sudo systemctl status node_exporter``
2. Test locally: ``curl http://localhost:9100/metrics``
3. Check firewall: ``sudo ufw status``

**See also**: :doc:`troubleshooting`

Next Steps
----------

- :doc:`grafana_dashboards` - Explore log data in dashboards
- :doc:`troubleshooting` - Solve common problems
