doc/source/deployments/rosi_collector/grafana_dashboards.rst, before:

.. _rosi-collector-grafana-dashboards:

Grafana Dashboards
==================

.. index::
   pair: ROSI Collector; dashboards
   single: Grafana
   single: Syslog Explorer
   single: Syslog Health
   single: impstats
   single: LogQL

ROSI Collector includes pre-built Grafana dashboards for exploring logs
and monitoring system health. This guide explains each dashboard and how
to use them effectively.

Dashboard Overview
------------------

ROSI Collector provisions five dashboards:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 28 72

   * - Dashboard
     - Purpose
   * - Syslog Explorer
     - Search and browse logs from all hosts
   * - Syslog Analysis
     - Distribution analysis (severity, hosts, etc.)
   * - Syslog Health
     - rsyslog impstats (queues, actions, CPU)
   * - Host Metrics Overview
     - System metrics (CPU, memory, disk) per host
   * - Alerting Overview
     - Active alerts and notification status

Syslog Explorer
---------------

.. figure:: /_static/dashboard-explorer.png
   :alt: Syslog Explorer Dashboard
   :align: center
   
   Syslog Explorer dashboard for browsing and searching logs

The Syslog Explorer is your primary interface for searching logs. It
provides:

- **Time range selector** - Choose the time window for your search
- **Host filter** - Limit results to specific hosts
- **Severity filter** - Filter by syslog severity (err, warning, info, etc.)
- **Facility filter** - Filter by syslog facility (auth, daemon, etc.)
- **Log table** - Browse log entries with timestamp, host, and message

**Common searches**:

- All errors: Set severity to ``err``
- Authentication events: Set facility to ``auth``
- Specific host: Select from host dropdown

**Using LogQL for advanced queries**:

Click "Explore" in the left sidebar and use LogQL queries:

.. code-block:: text

   # Find SSH failures
   {job="syslog"} |= "Failed password"
   
   # Errors from specific host
   {host="webserver-01"} | json | severity = "err"
   
   # Count errors by host
   sum by (host) (count_over_time({job="syslog"} | json | severity = "err" [5m]))

Syslog Analysis
---------------

.. figure:: /_static/dashboard-deepdive.png
   :alt: Syslog Analysis Dashboard
   :align: center
   
   Syslog Analysis dashboard for log distribution

This dashboard provides analytical views of log data:

- **Log volume graph** - Messages over time
- **Severity breakdown** - Pie chart of log severities
- **Top hosts** - Hosts generating the most logs
- **Error trends** - Error count over time

Use this dashboard to:

- Identify hosts with unusual log volumes
- Track error rates over time
- Find the most common error messages

Syslog Health (impstats)
------------------------

The **Syslog Health** dashboard shows rsyslog internal metrics when client
hosts run the **impstats sidecar** (installed by default with the client
setup script). Add impstats targets on the collector:

.. code-block:: bash

   prometheus-target --job impstats add CLIENT_IP:9898 host=HOSTNAME role=rsyslog network=internal
   # Or add both node_exporter and impstats in one step:
   prometheus-target add-client CLIENT_IP host=HOSTNAME role=rsyslog network=internal

The dashboard is grouped into: **Overview** (exporter count, failures, queues),
**Queues** (size, utilization, drops), **Input** (ingest rate), **Actions**
(processed/failed/suspended), and **Output & resource usage** (egress bytes
and CPU). Use the Host dropdown to filter by client.

Host Metrics Overview
---------------------

.. figure:: /_static/dashboard-node.png
   :alt: Host Metrics Overview Dashboard
   :align: center
   
   Host Metrics Overview showing system metrics

The Host Metrics Overview shows system metrics from node_exporter:

- **CPU usage** - Per-core and total utilization
- **Memory** - Used, available, and cached
- **Disk I/O** - Read/write throughput
- **Network** - Bytes in/out per interface
- **Disk space** - Usage by filesystem

Select a host from the dropdown to view its metrics. Time range applies
to all panels. (When clients run the impstats sidecar, see **Syslog Health**
for rsyslog-specific metrics.)

**Key metrics to watch**:

- CPU usage sustained above 80%
- Memory usage approaching 100%
- Disk usage above 80%
- Network errors or drops

Alerting Overview
-----------------

.. figure:: /_static/dashboard-alerts.png
   :alt: Alerting Overview Dashboard
   :align: center
   
   Alerting Overview dashboard for monitoring alert status

View active alerts and notification status:

- **Firing alerts** - Currently active alerts
- **Alert history** - Recent alert state changes
- **Silence status** - Active silences

Creating Custom Dashboards
--------------------------

You can create your own dashboards in Grafana:

1. Click the **+** icon in the left sidebar
2. Select **New Dashboard**
3. Add panels using Loki (logs) or Prometheus (metrics) as data source

**Loki query examples**:

.. code-block:: text

   # Count logs by host
   sum by (host) (count_over_time({job="syslog"}[5m]))
   
   # Specific application logs
   {job="syslog", host="appserver"} |= "myapp"
   
   # Parse and filter
   {job="syslog"} | pattern "<_> <_> <_> <facility>.<severity> <message>" | severity = "err"

**Prometheus query examples**:

.. code-block:: text

   # CPU usage percentage
   100 - (avg by (instance) (irate(node_cpu_seconds_total{mode="idle"}[5m])) * 100)
   
   # Memory usage
   (node_memory_MemTotal_bytes - node_memory_MemAvailable_bytes) / node_memory_MemTotal_bytes * 100
   
   # Disk usage
   100 - ((node_filesystem_avail_bytes / node_filesystem_size_bytes) * 100)

Exporting Dashboards
--------------------

To backup or share dashboards:

1. Open the dashboard
2. Click the gear icon (Dashboard settings)
3. Select **JSON Model**
4. Copy the JSON and save it

Or use the API:

.. code-block:: bash

   curl -s http://localhost:3000/api/dashboards/db/syslog-explorer \
     -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_API_KEY" | jq .

Dashboard Best Practices
------------------------

**For log exploration**:

- Start with a narrow time range
- Use filters to reduce result set
- Export to CSV for offline analysis

**For monitoring**:

- Set appropriate alert thresholds
- Use template variables for host selection
- Create summary panels for quick status

**For performance**:

- Avoid queries spanning more than 24 hours on busy systems
- Use labels to filter before pattern matching
- Limit log line display count

See Also
--------

- `Grafana Loki documentation <https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/>`_
- `LogQL query language <https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/logql/>`_
- `PromQL basics <https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/basics/>`_

Commit message:

feat(rosi-collector): impstats sidecar on server, Grafana rate limits, docs
- Add optional impstats sidecar on collector server via init.sh
  - Prompts or SERVER_IMPSTATS_SIDECAR=true
  - check_sidecar_requirements() prompts for python3-venv on Debian/Ubuntu
  - Auto-add server to node and impstats Prometheus targets (no duplicates)
- Traefik: separate rate-limit-grafana (600/min, burst 300) for Grafana
  - Reduces 429 errors on dashboard reload
- Host Metrics: Node Status Overview panel height set to 10
  - Fixed height; table scrolls for many hosts
- Docs: installation, grafana_dashboards, client_setup, troubleshooting
  - SERVER_IMPSTATS_SIDECAR, server auto-registration, 429, ensurepip

doc/source/deployments/rosi_collector/grafana_dashboards.rst, after:

.. _rosi-collector-grafana-dashboards:

Grafana Dashboards
==================

.. index::
   pair: ROSI Collector; dashboards
   single: Grafana
   single: Syslog Explorer
   single: Syslog Health
   single: impstats
   single: LogQL

ROSI Collector includes pre-built Grafana dashboards for exploring logs
and monitoring system health. This guide explains each dashboard and how
to use them effectively.

Dashboard Overview
------------------

ROSI Collector provisions five dashboards:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 28 72

   * - Dashboard
     - Purpose
   * - Syslog Explorer
     - Search and browse logs from all hosts
   * - Syslog Analysis
     - Distribution analysis (severity, hosts, etc.)
   * - Syslog Health
     - rsyslog impstats (queues, actions, CPU)
   * - Host Metrics Overview
     - System metrics (CPU, memory, disk) per host
   * - Alerting Overview
     - Active alerts and notification status

Syslog Explorer
---------------

.. figure:: /_static/dashboard-explorer.png
   :alt: Syslog Explorer Dashboard
   :align: center
   
   Syslog Explorer dashboard for browsing and searching logs

The Syslog Explorer is your primary interface for searching logs. It
provides:

- **Time range selector** - Choose the time window for your search
- **Host filter** - Limit results to specific hosts
- **Severity filter** - Filter by syslog severity (err, warning, info, etc.)
- **Facility filter** - Filter by syslog facility (auth, daemon, etc.)
- **Log table** - Browse log entries with timestamp, host, and message

**Common searches**:

- All errors: Set severity to ``err``
- Authentication events: Set facility to ``auth``
- Specific host: Select from host dropdown

**Using LogQL for advanced queries**:

Click "Explore" in the left sidebar and use LogQL queries:

.. code-block:: text

   # Find SSH failures
   {job="syslog"} |= "Failed password"
   
   # Errors from specific host
   {host="webserver-01"} | json | severity = "err"
   
   # Count errors by host
   sum by (host) (count_over_time({job="syslog"} | json | severity = "err" [5m]))

Syslog Analysis
---------------

.. figure:: /_static/dashboard-deepdive.png
   :alt: Syslog Analysis Dashboard
   :align: center
   
   Syslog Analysis dashboard for log distribution

This dashboard provides analytical views of log data:

- **Log volume graph** - Messages over time
- **Severity breakdown** - Pie chart of log severities
- **Top hosts** - Hosts generating the most logs
- **Error trends** - Error count over time

Use this dashboard to:

- Identify hosts with unusual log volumes
- Track error rates over time
- Find the most common error messages

Syslog Health (impstats)
------------------------

The **Syslog Health** dashboard shows rsyslog internal metrics when hosts
run the **impstats sidecar**. The collector server can run the sidecar too:
``init.sh`` prompts to install it (or use ``SERVER_IMPSTATS_SIDECAR=true``
in non-interactive mode). For client hosts, the client setup script installs
it by default. Add impstats targets on the collector:

.. code-block:: bash

   # Client (or init.sh adds the server automatically when sidecar is installed)
   prometheus-target --job impstats add CLIENT_IP:9898 host=HOSTNAME role=rsyslog network=internal
   # Or add both node_exporter and impstats in one step:
   prometheus-target add-client CLIENT_IP host=HOSTNAME role=rsyslog network=internal

The dashboard is grouped into: **Overview** (exporter count, failures, queues),
**Queues** (size, utilization, drops), **Input** (ingest rate), **Actions**
(processed/failed/suspended), and **Output & resource usage** (egress bytes
and CPU). Use the Host dropdown to filter by client.

Host Metrics Overview
---------------------

.. figure:: /_static/dashboard-node.png
   :alt: Host Metrics Overview Dashboard
   :align: center
   
   Host Metrics Overview showing system metrics

The Host Metrics Overview shows system metrics from node_exporter:

- **Node Status Overview** - Table of hosts with CPU, memory, disk, uptime.
  Fixed height with vertical scroll when many hosts are configured.
- **CPU usage** - Per-core and total utilization
- **Memory** - Used, available, and cached
- **Disk I/O** - Read/write throughput
- **Network** - Bytes in/out per interface
- **Disk space** - Usage by filesystem

Select a host from the dropdown to view its metrics. Time range applies
to all panels. Use the Role and Network filters to narrow the view.
(When clients run the impstats sidecar, see **Syslog Health** for
rsyslog-specific metrics.)

.. note::
   If you see ``429 Too Many Requests`` when reloading dashboards, see
   :ref:`rosi-grafana-429`.

**Key metrics to watch**:

- CPU usage sustained above 80%
- Memory usage approaching 100%
- Disk usage above 80%
- Network errors or drops

Alerting Overview
-----------------

.. figure:: /_static/dashboard-alerts.png
   :alt: Alerting Overview Dashboard
   :align: center
   
   Alerting Overview dashboard for monitoring alert status

View active alerts and notification status:

- **Firing alerts** - Currently active alerts
- **Alert history** - Recent alert state changes
- **Silence status** - Active silences

Creating Custom Dashboards
--------------------------

You can create your own dashboards in Grafana:

1. Click the **+** icon in the left sidebar
2. Select **New Dashboard**
3. Add panels using Loki (logs) or Prometheus (metrics) as data source

**Loki query examples**:

.. code-block:: text

   # Count logs by host
   sum by (host) (count_over_time({job="syslog"}[5m]))
   
   # Specific application logs
   {job="syslog", host="appserver"} |= "myapp"
   
   # Parse and filter
   {job="syslog"} | pattern "<_> <_> <_> <facility>.<severity> <message>" | severity = "err"

**Prometheus query examples**:

.. code-block:: text

   # CPU usage percentage
   100 - (avg by (instance) (irate(node_cpu_seconds_total{mode="idle"}[5m])) * 100)
   
   # Memory usage
   (node_memory_MemTotal_bytes - node_memory_MemAvailable_bytes) / node_memory_MemTotal_bytes * 100
   
   # Disk usage
   100 - ((node_filesystem_avail_bytes / node_filesystem_size_bytes) * 100)

Exporting Dashboards
--------------------

To backup or share dashboards:

1. Open the dashboard
2. Click the gear icon (Dashboard settings)
3. Select **JSON Model**
4. Copy the JSON and save it

Or use the API:

.. code-block:: bash

   curl -s http://localhost:3000/api/dashboards/db/syslog-explorer \
     -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_API_KEY" | jq .

Dashboard Best Practices
------------------------

**For log exploration**:

- Start with a narrow time range
- Use filters to reduce result set
- Export to CSV for offline analysis

**For monitoring**:

- Set appropriate alert thresholds
- Use template variables for host selection
- Create summary panels for quick status

**For performance**:

- Avoid queries spanning more than 24 hours on busy systems
- Use labels to filter before pattern matching
- Limit log line display count

See Also
--------

- `Grafana Loki documentation <https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/>`_
- `LogQL query language <https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/logql/>`_
- `PromQL basics <https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/basics/>`_
