doc/source/deployments/rosi_collector/index.rst, before:

.. _rosi-collector-index:

ROSI Collector
==============

.. index::
   single: ROSI
   single: ROSI Collector
   single: centralized logging
   single: Loki
   single: Grafana

**Rsyslog Operations Stack Initiative** (ROSI) Collector is a production-ready
centralized log collection and monitoring stack. It combines rsyslog's powerful
log processing with modern observability tools to provide a complete logging
solution.

.. figure:: rosi-architecture.svg
   :alt: ROSI Collector Architecture Overview
   :align: center
   :width: 100%
   
   ROSI Collector architecture - centralized logging with rsyslog, Loki, and Grafana

What is ROSI Collector?
-----------------------

ROSI Collector is a Docker Compose stack that deploys:

- **rsyslog** - High-performance log receiver and processor
- **Grafana Loki** - Log aggregation and querying
- **Grafana** - Visualization with pre-built dashboards
- **Prometheus** - Metrics collection and alerting
- **Traefik** - Reverse proxy with automatic TLS

Together, these components provide centralized log management for any number
of client hosts, with powerful search, visualization, and alerting capabilities.

.. note::
   The installation scripts have been tested on **Ubuntu 24.04 LTS**.
   Other Debian-based distributions should work with minor adjustments.

Use Cases
---------

ROSI Collector is ideal for:

- **Centralized log aggregation** from multiple servers and applications
- **Security monitoring** with searchable audit logs
- **Compliance requirements** needing log retention and search
- **DevOps teams** wanting quick visibility into system logs
- **Small to medium deployments** with up to hundreds of hosts

Key Features
------------

**Pre-built Dashboards**
   Five Grafana dashboards: Syslog Explorer, Syslog Analysis, Syslog Health
   (impstats), Host Metrics Overview, and Alerting Overview.

**Automatic TLS**
   Traefik obtains Let's Encrypt certificates automatically. No manual
   certificate management required.

**Syslog TLS Support**
   Optional TLS-encrypted syslog on port 6514 with three authentication
   modes: server-only (anon), mutual TLS (x509/certvalid), and name-based
   mutual TLS (x509/name).

**Easy Client Setup**
   Automated installation scripts for rsyslog forwarding and node_exporter.
   Scripts are served via the built-in downloads container.

**CLI Management Tools**
   ``rosi-monitor`` for health monitoring (including Docker internal IPs and
   network info) and ``prometheus-target`` for managing Prometheus scrape
   targets (add/remove by IP or hostname).

**Prometheus Metrics**
   Collect system metrics from all clients via node_exporter.

**Alerting Ready**
   Email alerting configured and ready to enable.

Quick Start
-----------

1. **Clone the repository** and navigate to the deployment::

      cd rsyslog/deploy/docker-compose/rosi-collector
      
2. **Initialize environment** using the provided script::

      sudo TRAEFIK_DOMAIN=logs.example.com \
           TRAEFIK_EMAIL=admin@example.com \
           ./scripts/init.sh

   The script will:
   
   - Prompt for installation directory (default: ``/opt/rosi-collector``)
   - Generate ``.env`` with secure passwords
   - Copy all configuration files
   - Install and configure node_exporter for server self-monitoring
   - Configure firewall rules for Docker container access
   - Create Docker network and systemd service

3. **Start the stack**::

      cd /opt/rosi-collector
      docker compose up -d
      
4. **Access Grafana** at ``https://your-domain.com``

5. **Configure clients** - see :doc:`client_setup`

For detailed installation instructions, see :doc:`installation`.

Architecture Overview
---------------------

.. code-block:: text

   Client Hosts                    ROSI Collector Server
   ┌────────────┐                 ┌─────────────────────────────────┐
   │  rsyslog   │──TCP:10514────▶ │  rsyslog  ──────────────▶  Loki │
   │            │                 │                                 │
   │node_exporter│◀─────────────── │  Prometheus                     │
   └────────────┘   scrape:9100   │       │                         │
                                  │       ▼                         │
                                  │    Grafana  ◀── Traefik (TLS)   │
                                  └─────────────────────────────────┘

Data flows:

1. **Logs**: Client rsyslog → Collector rsyslog → Loki → Grafana
2. **Metrics**: Prometheus scrapes node_exporter on clients → Grafana

All external access goes through Traefik, which handles TLS termination.

Documentation Contents
----------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: ROSI Collector Guide

   architecture
   installation
   client_setup
   grafana_dashboards
   troubleshooting

See Also
--------

- :doc:`../../containers/collector` - The base collector container image
- :doc:`../../tutorials/reliable_forwarding` - Reliable log forwarding concepts
- :doc:`../../configuration/index` - rsyslog configuration reference

Commit message:

feat(rosi-collector): impstats sidecar on server, Grafana rate limits, docs
- Add optional impstats sidecar on collector server via init.sh
  - Prompts or SERVER_IMPSTATS_SIDECAR=true
  - check_sidecar_requirements() prompts for python3-venv on Debian/Ubuntu
  - Auto-add server to node and impstats Prometheus targets (no duplicates)
- Traefik: separate rate-limit-grafana (600/min, burst 300) for Grafana
  - Reduces 429 errors on dashboard reload
- Host Metrics: Node Status Overview panel height set to 10
  - Fixed height; table scrolls for many hosts
- Docs: installation, grafana_dashboards, client_setup, troubleshooting
  - SERVER_IMPSTATS_SIDECAR, server auto-registration, 429, ensurepip

doc/source/deployments/rosi_collector/index.rst, after:

.. _rosi-collector-index:

ROSI Collector
==============

.. index::
   single: ROSI
   single: ROSI Collector
   single: centralized logging
   single: Loki
   single: Grafana

**Rsyslog Operations Stack Initiative** (ROSI) Collector is a production-ready
centralized log collection and monitoring stack. It combines rsyslog's powerful
log processing with modern observability tools to provide a complete logging
solution.

.. figure:: rosi-architecture.svg
   :alt: ROSI Collector Architecture Overview
   :align: center
   :width: 100%
   
   ROSI Collector architecture - centralized logging with rsyslog, Loki, and Grafana

What is ROSI Collector?
-----------------------

ROSI Collector is a Docker Compose stack that deploys:

- **rsyslog** - High-performance log receiver and processor
- **Grafana Loki** - Log aggregation and querying
- **Grafana** - Visualization with pre-built dashboards
- **Prometheus** - Metrics collection and alerting
- **Traefik** - Reverse proxy with automatic TLS

Together, these components provide centralized log management for any number
of client hosts, with powerful search, visualization, and alerting capabilities.

.. note::
   The installation scripts have been tested on **Ubuntu 24.04 LTS**.
   Other Debian-based distributions should work with minor adjustments.

Use Cases
---------

ROSI Collector is ideal for:

- **Centralized log aggregation** from multiple servers and applications
- **Security monitoring** with searchable audit logs
- **Compliance requirements** needing log retention and search
- **DevOps teams** wanting quick visibility into system logs
- **Small to medium deployments** with up to hundreds of hosts

Key Features
------------

**Pre-built Dashboards**
   Five Grafana dashboards: Syslog Explorer, Syslog Analysis, Syslog Health
   (impstats), Host Metrics Overview, and Alerting Overview.

**Automatic TLS**
   Traefik obtains Let's Encrypt certificates automatically. No manual
   certificate management required.

**Syslog TLS Support**
   Optional TLS-encrypted syslog on port 6514 with three authentication
   modes: server-only (anon), mutual TLS (x509/certvalid), and name-based
   mutual TLS (x509/name).

**Easy Client Setup**
   Automated installation scripts for rsyslog forwarding and node_exporter.
   Scripts are served via the built-in downloads container.

**CLI Management Tools**
   ``rosi-monitor`` for health monitoring (including Docker internal IPs and
   network info) and ``prometheus-target`` for managing Prometheus scrape
   targets (add/remove by IP or hostname).

**Prometheus Metrics**
   Collect system metrics from all clients via node_exporter.

**Alerting Ready**
   Email alerting configured and ready to enable.

Quick Start
-----------

1. **Clone the repository** and navigate to the deployment::

      cd rsyslog/deploy/docker-compose/rosi-collector
      
2. **Initialize environment** using the provided script::

      sudo TRAEFIK_DOMAIN=logs.example.com \
           TRAEFIK_EMAIL=admin@example.com \
           ./scripts/init.sh

   The script will:
   
   - Prompt for installation directory (default: ``/opt/rosi-collector``)
   - Generate ``.env`` with secure passwords
   - Copy config files, create Docker network, and systemd service
   - Install node_exporter on the server and add to Prometheus
   - Optionally configure server syslog forwarding and impstats sidecar
   - Configure firewall rules for Docker container access

3. **Start the stack**::

      cd /opt/rosi-collector
      docker compose up -d
      
4. **Access Grafana** at ``https://your-domain.com``

5. **Configure clients** - see :doc:`client_setup`

For detailed installation instructions, see :doc:`installation`.

Architecture Overview
---------------------

.. code-block:: text

   Client Hosts                    ROSI Collector Server
   ┌────────────┐                 ┌─────────────────────────────────┐
   │  rsyslog   │──TCP:10514────▶ │  rsyslog  ──────────────▶  Loki │
   │            │                 │                                 │
   │node_exporter│◀─────────────── │  Prometheus                     │
   └────────────┘   scrape:9100   │       │                         │
                                  │       ▼                         │
                                  │    Grafana  ◀── Traefik (TLS)   │
                                  └─────────────────────────────────┘

Data flows:

1. **Logs**: Client rsyslog → Collector rsyslog → Loki → Grafana
2. **Metrics**: Prometheus scrapes node_exporter on clients → Grafana

All external access goes through Traefik, which handles TLS termination.

Documentation Contents
----------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: ROSI Collector Guide

   architecture
   installation
   client_setup
   grafana_dashboards
   troubleshooting

See Also
--------

- :doc:`../../containers/collector` - The base collector container image
- :doc:`../../tutorials/reliable_forwarding` - Reliable log forwarding concepts
- :doc:`../../configuration/index` - rsyslog configuration reference
